Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) flourished amid adversity. We were 
not spared by the many challenges in 2021, brought about by the 
extended pandemic and onslaught of Typhoon Odette. These triggered 
shifts in the industry such as in customer behavior, market demand, 
stakeholder needs’ and business operations, among others. We took 
all these uncertainties in stride, adapted, and aimed higher than ever. 
We have consistently delivered and have remained an industry 
leader. No matter the circumstance, we have continued to provide 
first-rate service to our customers, communities, and employees. 
Customer-centricity and community focus are part of our core values 
– it has driven us to go above and beyond expectations.
The events in the past year provided us with the opportunity to examine 
how we can make our company more resilient. We were reminded of the 
interconnectedness and interdependencies of our actions. This urged us 
to view our development plans and targets through the sustainability 
lens – prioritizing our common goal of building a better future. 
As we continue to navigate our current reality and accelerate our 
expansion to new businesses, our goal is to move beyond business 
as usual. We intend to adhere to the best business practices and 
streamline our focus to what matters most: people, planet, and profit. 
We prioritize the health and welfare of our people, our customers, and 
our communities while ensuring business continuity. In strengthening 
our brand and competitiveness, we create better systems, more 
innovative projects, more productive communities, and improve our 
customers’ and other stakeholders’ quality of life. We are committed 
to managing our impacts, mitigating risks, and building resilience. 
Only through this paradigm shift can we truly create a lasting positive 
impact on our environment, economy, and society.
GOING BEYOND
About the Cover
 2 3 integrated report 2021About the Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
We strive for excellence in all aspects. This 2021 Integrated Report 
marks our journey in upgrading our sustainability efforts to integrate 
them with every stage of our value chain. This IR presents our 
subsidiaries’ consolidated information on our financial, economic, 
environmental, social, and governance performance from January 1, 
2021, to December 31, 2021. 
We follow global standards and best practices. This report was prepared 
according to the principles of the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework 
and shows how our strategy, good governance, and performance affect 
value creation in the long term. We aligned our value chain with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) to further 
understand our contributions to the Goals. Our material topics were also 
cross-referenced with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
We aim to solidify our commitment to holistic growth, promoting 
integrated thinking and decision-making that contributes to 
sustainable development. ABOUT THE COMPANY
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
MESSAGE FROM THE COO
MESSAGE FROM THE CFO
OUR STORY AND STRATEGY
OUR BUSINESS
BEYOND GENERATIONS
BEYOND THE BOTTOMLINE
FINANCIAL REVIEW
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
BEYOND MEASURE
BEYOND EXPECTATIONS
BEYOND COMPLIANCE
APPENDICES
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
GRI CONTENT INDEX
STAKEHOLDER INQUIRIES
CREDITS6
20
22
24
26
36
84
92
96
103
108
130
144
174
183
190
310
320
321ABOUT
THE REPORT
4 5
integrated report 2021Cebu Landmasters’ story began with a vision to provide quality homes for everyday Filipinos. Jose R. 
Soberano III founded Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) in 2003. He spotted untapped housing opportunities in 
the countryside of Cebu and named CLI’s first project after his patron saint, San Josemaria Village located in 
Balamban. Along with only two employees, he managed to sell all properties immediately.
Since then, we have expanded to more economic housing projects in rural areas up to the  cities, diversified 
our portfolio, and expanded across Visayas and Mindanao. Today, CLI has more than 100 projects in different 
development stages and established a diverse portfolio of residences, offices, hotels, mixed-use properties, and 
townships across 15 key cities in the VisMin regions. CLI’s initial public offering and listing on the Philippine Stock 
Exchange on June 2, 2017 was instrumental in this growth, as it generated PhP 2.15 billion worth of fresh capital 
from investors – boosting our expansion in new locations and fueling our various projects.
CLI was solidified as an industry leader by winning the Best Commercial Development Philippines Property 
Award (PPA) in 2014 for Park Centrale, a sustainably-designed prime office building in Cebu I.T. Park. 
This was a first for the Cebu real estate industry. Five years later, CLI bagged the Best Developer of the 
Philippines in PPA and Asia Property Awards in 2019, winning against other well-established players in the 
industry. Based on the Santos Knight Frank’s 2020 real estate market study, CLI has sustained its market 
leadership as the leading developer in VisMin in spite of  the COVID-19 pandemic. 
CUSTOMER-FIRST:
Create Extraordinary Experiences
Our customers are our top priority, ensuring they 
have the best experience possible.ABOUT THE COMPANY
HISTORY
About the CompanyVISION
To be the leading real 
estate company in the 
Visayas and Mindanao 
and the most 
customer-centric and 
community-focused 
organization in 
the region.
MISSION
Guarantee stakeholder 
satisfaction by 
bringing out the 
extraordinary in every 
step of the real 
estate journey.CORE VALUES
AGILITY:
Think Big and Think Fast
We are highly driven to take immediate action in 
response to the rapidly changing needs of our market.COLLABORATION:
Move Forward as One Team
We value teamwork and collaboration as key factors 
in driving our business forward.
COMMITMENT:
Walk the Talk and Deliver Results
We are committed to delivering our promise of 
pursuing excellence in our projects and world-class 
hospitality to our clients.
LEADERSHIP:
Masters Lead the Way
We have the honor and responsibility as leaders in 
the real estate industry in Visayas and Mindanao.
INTEGRITY:
Uphold the Highest Moral Standards
We uphold the highest moral standards with zeal  
and integrity.
CEBU LANDMASTERS ADVANTAGE:
THE FOUR PILLARS
Our assets and quality of service set us apart from other developers in the country. 
By working with us, customers can rely on CLI to provide top-notch experiences.
HANDS-ON SERVICE 
We eagerly accommodate clients’ needs with our 
excellent hands-on service before, during, and after 
property turnover. This includes in-house sales support, 
monthly construction updates, In-house CLI Property 
Management (CLIPM), and a dedicated customer relations 
team that responds within 24 hours during office days.
VISMIN EXPERTISE
Our local knowledge and expertise in the Visayas and 
Mindanao regions allow us to strategically select prime 
locations and offer the best value for our projects.GENEROUS AMENITIES
We promise nothing but high-quality delivery through 
value-added amenities that cater to our customers’ 
every need. These include chapels, pools, basketball 
courts, meditation gardens, clubhouses, and other 
facilities, which vary per project.
WIDE RANGE OF CHOICES
We take pride in our diverse portfolio of projects located 
in key VisMin cities including Cebu, Bogo, Balamban, 
Mactan, Talisay, Naga, Minglanilla, Mandaue, Davao, 
Cagayan de Oro, Bacolod, Ormoc Dumaguete, Iloilo, 
Puerto Princesa and Bohol. We offer developments such 
as residences, mixed-use developments, hotels, offices, 
retail, townships, estates, and resorts.
6 7
integrated report 2021
Our business model creates value throughout our business activities in property development and 
management. We produce outcomes from our six capitals that bring economic, social, and environmental 
benefits to our customers, communities, and employees.HOW WE CREATE VALUE
CAPITALS
(INPUTS)OUTPUTS OUTCOMES
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
TOP TEN RISKSKEY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Financial
Intellectual
Human
Manufactured
Natural
Social or 
Relationship63 Residential 
Products
• 29,326 units 
across 172 ha.
• 29 Completed
• 24 Under 
Construction 
4 Socialized
Housing Medium-
Rise Building 
(MRB) Tenements 
• 1 under 
construction 
• 3 under 
planning
6 Offices
8 Hotels (180 keys 
operational)
3 Townships
8 Mixed-Use 
Developments
Leasing assets
• 29,000 sqm 
GLABusiness growth or   
favorable economic 
performance
Solid and healthy 
balance sheet
Increased 
employment and 
improved local 
economy
Resilient and 
sustainable housing 
and
community spaces
Customer loyalty
Enhanced brand 
value
Resource 
conservation 
and reduced 
environmental 
impacts
Healthy and 
motivated 
employees
Productive and self-
reliant communities
Better living 
conditions
Strengthened 
partnerships1. Site Selection 
and Land 
Acquisition
2. Business 
Development 
and Technical 
Planning and 
Design
3. Construction 
and 
Engineering
1. Changing market demand
2. Permitting and licensing delays
3. Project execution and delivery
4. Data integrity and accuracy
5. Environmental- and climate change-
related 
6. Financial 
7. IT systems
8. Health & Safety
9. Regulatory compliance
10. Partnership and alliance4. Marketing and 
Sales 
5. Customer 
Relations
6. Leasing 
Operations
7. Hotel 
Operations
8. Property 
Management• Strategic 
Landbanking
• Residential 
Development
• Mixed-Use 
Development
• Hotel 
Development
• Township 
Development
• Residential 
Units Sales
• Leasing: Office, 
Retail and 
Residential 
Space
• Hotel 
Operations
• Property 
Management
• New 
BusinessesBUSINESS PRINCIPLES 
AND BUSINESS MODEL
Our business principles and model allow us to create value for our stakeholders over the short, medium, 
and long term through business activities. 
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
CLI’s business principles serve as our guide in decision making across the value creation process.
LEADERSHIP IN VISMIN 
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE 
DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGIC LOCATION 
SELECTION
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEEXPERIENCED TEAM AND 
ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURESTRENGTH IN
RESOURCE ALLOCATIONDIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO
Business Principles and Business Model 8 9 integrated report 2021Subsidiaries and AssociatesSUBSIDIARIES
AND ASSOCIATE
CEBU LANDMASTERS, INC.We maximize our capacity to generate value by expanding and diversifying our 
operations and forming partnerships with other companies. 
CLI Premier Hotels
Int’l. Inc. (CPH)
100%
Magspeak Nature Park, Inc. 
(Magspeak)
25%Ming-mori Development 
Corporation (MDC)
80%
Cebu BL-Ramos Ventures, 
Inc. (CBLRV)
50%YHES Premier Hotels Inc. 
(YHESPH)
50%
GGTT Realty
50%
Sugbu Prime Estate
75%Yuson Excellence Soberano, 
Inc. (YES)
50%CLI-LITE
87.5%Cebu Homegrown 
Developers, Inc. (CHDI)
50%
YHEST Realty and 
Development Corporation 
(YHEST)
50%
BL CBP Ventures, Inc.
(BL Ventures)
50%Yuson Huang Excellence 
Soberano, Inc. (YHES)
50%
El Camino Developers 
Cebu, Inc. (El Camino)
35%
Gothong Southern, 12 
Sika Holdings, Acrissor 
Dev’t Corp, RKD Property 
Holdings, Inc.
Partners
Yuson Strategic Holdings, Inc., 
Davao Filandia Realty Corp., 
Plaza de Luisa Development, 
Inc., Yuson Newton Corp & 
Strategic Holdings, Inc., Davao 
Primeland Properties, Inc.
PartnersBorromeo Bros. Estate, Inc.
PartnerYuson Strategic Holdings, Inc., 
Davao Filandia Realty Corp.
Partners
Bob Gothong, Segundino 
Selma, Jr., and Ricarido King
PartnersUKC Builders, Inc.
Partner
IBC International
Builders Corporation
PartnerLite Shipping Corporation
Partner
Sugbu Prime OPC
PartnerYuson Commercial
Investments, Inc.
PartnerIxidor Holdings, Inc.
Partner
Borromeo Bros. Estate, Inc.
PartnerYuson Strategic Holdings, Inc., 
Davao Filandia Realty Corp.
PartnerCebu Landmasters 
Property Management, 
Inc. (CLIPM)
100%
Mivesa Garden Residences, 
Inc. (MGR)
45%
SUBSIDIARIES
ASSOCIATE
10 11
integrated report 2021• Best Township in Asia - Davao Global Township2021 AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITIONS 
We maintained market leadership in the VisMin and bagged several accolades. We won several awards 
at the 9th Annual PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards in 2021; we were awarded as the Fastest 
Growing Real Estate Developer in the Philippines by the 2021 International Finance’s Real Estate Awards; 
and recognized as one of the Top Ten Developers 2020/2021 Philippines by BCI Asia during the BCI Asia 
Awards 2020/2021.
DEVELOPER AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
• Best Developer (Visayas) 
9th Annual PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards
• Best Developer (Mindanao)
9th Annual PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards
• Special Recognition in Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
9th Annual PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards
• Special Recognition in Sustainable Design & Construction
9th Annual PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards
• Top Ten Developers 2020/2021 Philippines 
BCI Asia Awards 2020/2021
• Fastest Growing Real Estate Developer in the Philippines
2021 International Finance’s Real Estate Awards
9TH ANNUAL PROPERTYGURU
PHILIPPINES PROPERTY AWARDS
• Best Township - Davao Global Township
• Best Mega Mixed-Use Development - Patria de Cebu
• Best Housing Development (Mindanao) - Velmiro Uptown CDO 
• Best Hotel Interior Design - Radisson Red Cebu Mandaue
• Best Condo Development (Visayas) - MesaVirre Garden Residences in Bacolod City
• Best Condo Development (Metro Davao) - One Paragon Place
• Best Affordable Condo Development (Metro Cebu) - Casa Mira Towers Mandaue
16TH ANNUAL PROPERTYGURU ASIA PROPERTY AWARDSDEVELOPMENT AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
2021 Awards and Recognitions 12 13 integrated report 2021
EESG Performance HighlightsECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL GOVERNANCEof 5,696 residential units dedicated to 
economic housing segment from 10 new 
residential projects
across 172 hectares with a project value 
of P86.2 billion by end of 2021
for the bottom-of-the-pyramid 
sector in Cebu City
MATERIALS USED
52.4 million cu.m 
of sand
38.9 million cu.m 
of gravel
72,831 tonnes 
of steel (rebars)
323,848 tonnes 
of cement
38,450 sqm 
of glass
70% increase 
in rebars used (kg)
326% increase 
in the cement used (kg) 
for owner-supplied 
materialsENERGY
68,009.41 GJ 
direct and indirect
energy from corporate 
offices, showrooms, 
managed properties and 
construction projectsENHANCEMENTS IN DIGITAL PLATFORMS AND 
CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES
Buy-A-Home microsite 
to provide sales partners quick access to new project 
inventories and promotions;
Masters Portal application for homeowners to track their 
payment status, get CLI construction updates and promos; 
and
Facebook chatbot for 24/7 response to general inquiries.
Online Reservation Process
CLI Elite Circle:
Buyers’ Rewards & Loyalty Program
Flagship Sales Office Opening & New Features: 
Digital/Queuing System, Ticketing General Queries Counter, 
Interactive screens
Virtual Launches/Events
Virtual Turn over Experience
EMISSIONS
3,764.59 MTCO 2e 
Scope 1 (fuel used)
3.87 MTCO 2e 
Scope 2 (purchased electricity)
4.45 MTCO 2e 
Scope 3 (emission of tenants/
unit owners) 
3,885.78 MTCO 2e
Total EmissionsBIODIVERSITY
6,000 native trees  
(9 native tree species)planted 
in Magspeak Nature Park in 
Brgy. Sunog in Balamban in 
partnership with the farmers 
of BUKID-MPC
WATER WITHDRAWAL
1,173,265.48 cu.m 
used in corporate offices, 
showrooms, managed 
properties and construction 
projectsAside from our excellent financial performance, CLI achieved significant milestones in our environmental, social, and 
good governance programs and efforts.YOY growth on 
Net Income
Robust Sales 
Take up YOY to
Salaries and Benefis
Dividends given to 
stockholders and 
interest payments to 
loan providersPayments to Creditors
Taxes paid to 
governmentPayments to 
Contractors, Suppliers, 
and Consultantstotal number of brokers/
sellers engaged
in brokers/sellers’ 
commissions and incentivesCLI continued to extend 
promotions to sellers and 
buyers, provided stretched 
payment terms, and amnesty 
on penalties for late payments. 
Customers were provided 
deferral plans which allowed 
them to pay their arrears for an 
extended period.
3 INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 
in the CLI Board; Independent 
director chairs Risk Oversight, 
Audit, Nomination, Related Party 
Transaction and Corporate 
Governance Committees of the Board
ROLLED OUT/CASCADED 
POLICIES AND PROGRAMS  
on: CLI’s Handbook on Employee 
Discipline, Transfer Pricing Policy, 
Anti-Money Laundering and 
Terrorist Financing prevention100% COMPLIANCE
to all regulatory requirements 
of the PSE and SEC
DIGITAL INNOVATIONS
to strengthen organizational 
efficiencies and optimize internal 
business processesCLI received 
SPECIAL RECOGNITION IN 
ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE (ESG) 
in the Philippine Property 
Awards in 2021CLI ENTERPRISE RISK 
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 
IN PLACE
As of yearend, 19 CLI-owned 
entities and joint-venture 
companies are registered with 
the Anti-money Laundering 
Council pursuant to RA 11521TYPHOON ODETTE RESPONSE
CLI responded to the needs of its 
host communities after the typhoon. 
CLI provided food packs, water, 
roofing materials and solar lamps to 
over 4,000 families in 22 barangaysCONTINUING 
PANDEMIC RESPONSE
CLI contributed P1 million 
in allowances for nurses in 
COVID wards in six (6) partner 
hospitals in Cebu CityCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Engaged women’s Organizations 
and Fisherfolks associations 
in Brgy. Calajoan, Tungkil 
and Tungkop, Municipality 
of Minglanillapaid to Visayas-
Mindanao sources
paid to Filipino 
Suppliers accross 
the countryrevenues 
Job Generation
construction of
Latitude Corporate Center, first 
commercial building in Cebu with a
awarded by BERDE100-unit socialized 
housing buildingtotal of 63 residential 
projects48% (2,725)P2.612 Billion
P16.526 Bn
P450 Million
P390 MillionP1.48 Billion
P350 MillionP7.13 Billion1,785
P403.1 Million
70%
90%P11.162 Billion
35% growth YOY
12,217
5-star rating for 
sustainable design 
and constructionDEVELOPING 
SUSTAINABLE AND 
RESILIENT SPACES
CONSERVING RESOURCES, MANAGING 
IMPACTS AND PROTECTING ECOSYSTEMSENGAGING AND INVESTING IN 
OUR CUSTOMERS
ENGAGING AND INVESTING IN
OUR PARTNER COMMUNITIES
ACHIEVING ORGANIZATIONAL EFFICIENCY 
AND GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCEGROWING THE BUSINESS AND
SUPPORTING LOCAL MARKETSAT A GLANCE  
EESG
all organic employees
spent on employee 
engagement activities
administered to employees 
and their dependents
vs. local minimum wage
for commuting employees to 
reduce COVID exposure
Health and wellbeing 
investmentsspent on seminars and 
trainings11:9 gender ratio
P1.63 Million
2,370 vaccines
14% higher entry-
level wage
Daily Shuttle Service
P15.4 MillionP0.9 MillionLaunch of CLI Behavioral 
Competencies
Flexible Work 
ArrangementENGAGING AND 
INVESTING
IN OUR PEOPLEPERFORMANCE 
HIGHLIGHTS
42% increase
surpassing pre-pandemic
levels (2019) by 30%P2.612 Billion
in Net Income to parent
14 15
integrated report 2021We intend to amplify our impacts by committing 
to the key SDGs we contribute to through our 
projects and programs. CLI focuses on allocating 
resources and efforts in these areas to better 
strive for sustainable development and help 
improve people’s quality of life.
We set the trend in 
developing socialized 
housing and medium-rise 
buildings for the 
urban poor. 
Our developments 
provide employment 
opportunities and support 
local businesses. We provide access to 
affordable housing, 
as well as build well-
planned, healthy and eco-
efficient residential, office, 
hotel, mixed-use, and 
township developments. 
We track resource use 
and commit to managing 
our impacts. 
We strive to manage our environmental 
impacts and seek to help protect 
ecosystems through various initiatives, 
collaborating with host communities and 
external partners. 
CONTRIBUTION 
TO THE UN SDGS
We invest in the health 
and wellbeing of our 
employees.
We promote diversity and 
equal opportunity in the 
workplace and areas of 
operations. 
We create conditions 
that allow people to have 
livelihoods that promote 
healthy spaces, good 
work environments, and 
best practices. 
• Enhanced HMO coverage for [100%] of 
• organic employees
• 2,370 free COVID-19 and flu vaccines 
administered to employees and dependents
• PhP 15.4 million health and wellbeing 
investments, 281% increase from 2020
• Medical drives
• Mental health programs
• 11:9 female to male employee ratio
ECONOMIC GROWTH
• Php 11.162 billion in Revenues; a growth of 
35% YOY and Php 2.612 billion in Net Income 
to parent, an increase of 42% surpassing pre-
pandemic levels (2019) by 30%• 10 new residential projects with 5,696 
residential units, 48% are for the economic 
housing segment
• 100-unit medium-rise socialized housing 
building in Cebu City
• Generated over12,217 jobs from direct hires, 
indirect hires, and those supported by CLI’s 
properties
• 572 organic employees
• 82 PM organic employees
• 329 outsourced personnel (managed 
properties)
• 89 outsourced personnel (corporate offices, 
branch offices, and showrooms)
• 47 hotel operations
• 9,933 construction sites 
• 1,165 occupants or workforce of CLI-owned 
properties’ tenants• 63 residential projects across 172 hectares 
• The Latitude Corporate Center will be the first 
mixed-use commercial building in Cebu to 
receive a 5-star BERDE rating for sustainable 
design and construction
• Established baseline data for materials used, 
energy consumption, water consumption and 
discharge, GHG emissions, and solid waste• PhP 451 million salaries and benefits, 23% 
increase from 2020
• PhP 7.13 billion payments to contractors, 
suppliers, and consultants, 106% increase 
from 2020
• 90% paid to Filipino suppliers, 70% paid to 
VisMin sources
• Suppliers - 99% of Filipino-owned, 74% 
VisMin-based
• Distribution of dividends
• PhP 1.3 billion distributed since 2018
• Cash dividends at PhP 0.112 per share
• Stock dividends of 123% per share
DECENT WORK
• Entry-level wage is 14% higher than local 
minimum wage
• PhP 0.9 million and 5,946 hours for training 
and seminars, 94% increase from 2020
• Compliance with labor codes and regulations 
protecting employees’ rights
• Planted 6,000 seedlings of native tree species 
in MagSpeak Nature Park
• Initial assessment of  of 1.4 hectares of 
mangrove area in Ming-Mori Development
• 100% LED lighting in new developments 
• CLI advocates for green building design, 
has in-house Certified Green Building 
practitioners, and is a member of the Green 
Building Council
16 17 integrated report 2021 Contribution to the UN SDGsHOW WE CREATE VALUE: 
SIX CAPITALS APPROACH
Cebu Landmasters creates shared value, mainly through developing and managing properties 
that enable clients to live a good quality of life. We leverage our six capitals to provide customers 
with the best service while caring for our communities and workforce. 
Since we develop and manage 
properties, all of our other capitals 
ultimately draw from renewable 
and non-renewable environmental 
resources. We practice resource 
efficiency and manage our 
impacts to protect ecosystems 
for CLI’s sustainability and future 
generations. Landbank: 103 ha
Materials: 
Cement: 323,848 ton
Glass: 38,450 sqm
Gravel: 38.9 million cu.m
Sand: 52.4 million cu.m
Steel: 72,831 tonCLI has a distinguished brand with 
a reliable track record of project 
execution – this makes us the 
leading property developer in the 
VisMin region. 
Our core competencies allow us to 
directly increase the value of our 
human, social, and financial capitals.•   We have local knowledge, 
mastery, expertise, and 
dominance in VisMin
•   We are an established 
name and trusted brand 
•   Our fast turnover of projects
•   Our hands-on, 
personalized, and digitized 
customer experience 
•   Our strong track record in 
the market segments
As a people-centric company, 
we prioritize the well-being and 
development of our workforce. Our 
human capital is indispensable to 
our operations. Like with natural 
resources, our employees and their 
skills influence the value of all 
other capitals.Total direct and indirect 
hires: 11,052
Organic employees: 572
Property management 
organic employees: 82
Outsourced personnel in 
managed properties: 329We develop and manage a highly 
diverse portfolio of products. 
Our properties are in the best 
locations, spread across the 15 
key cities in VisMin.Real Estate Products 
Residential: 63 (72.4%) 
Hotels: 8 (9.20%)
Offices: 6 (6.90%)
Retail: 8 (9.20%) 
Townships: 2 (2.30%)Leasing Assets
From new 2021 projects: 
29,133 sqm GLA 
Under construction: 
46,600 sqm
Hotel operations: 
180 rooms with 97% 
average occupancy 
1,595 rooms under 
construction
We have been able to establish and maintain our social capital 
throughout the years. We have a strong relationship with the local 
broker community; we are a trusted brand by clients and customers; and 
a preferred partner of landowners, as demonstrated by our successful 
joint venture (JV) partnerships.We are present in 21 cities 
and municipalities, and 48 
barangays across the Visayas 
and Mindanao Regions. We have built a strong and steadfast financial position, especially 
considering the challenges we faced throughout the pandemic. Our 
financial capital fuels our developments, ultimately affecting how we 
create value and our sustainability as a company. As such, CLI ensures 
that funds are available to provide quality real estate products and 
provide services. In 2021, we had a total capital expenditure of Php 9.7 
billion allocated mainly for property development. We source these 
funds from internal profit-generating operations and from external 
capital, both equity and debt. We loan from local banks and institutions, 
while our equity comes from being a publicly-listed company on the 
Philippine Stock Exchange. NATURAL CAPITAL
MANUFACTURED CAPITALFINANCIAL CAPITALINTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
HUMAN CAPITAL
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITALEnergy
48,821.08 GJ direct energy 
fuel used to operate gensets 
and to run vehicles
19,188.33 GJ indirect energy 
(purchased electricity) 
Water consumed: 
1,173,265.48 cu.m of water 
consumedInvestor trust is of 
utmost importance to 
CLI, which is why we are 
highly committed to good 
governance, prudent risk 
management, and financial 
responsibility to generate 
returns for our shareholders.•   Award-winning planning 
and design
•   Pandemic resilience in 
operations, construction, 
product demand, and 
innovation
•   After-sales and in-house 
property management 
support
Outsourced personnel in 
corporate and branch
offices and showrooms: 89
Hotel operations 
workforce: 47
Construction workforce: 9,933
Six Capitals Approach
 18 19
integrated report 2021
Despite uncertainties, 2021 was undoubtedly a year of 
hope and recovery. While periodic surges in COVID-19 
and a record-breaking typhoon dashed expectations of 
a full economic upswing, we nevertheless witnessed 
sustained periods of dynamic business activity and 
glimpses of hope that the worst of the pandemic may be 
behind us. 
Cebu Landmasters, Inc. has always believed in 
managing for the long-term, given our mission to 
guarantee stakeholder satisfaction by building and 
creating sustained value for future generations. As 
such, we do not view this prolonged pandemic and the 
shocks that it may still bring as a significant roadblock 
to greater success. In fact, we not only stayed the 
course but even took 2021 as an opportunity to 
expand into new business segments, recalibrate 
our internal systems, and deepen our investments 
in the Visayas and Mindanao regions.
As a result, we managed to turn an unpredictable 
year into an extraordinary year of growth. 
We widened our lead as the top residential 
developer in Visayas-Mindanao with the largest 
share in the condominium (33%) and subdivision 
(26%) markets. We ended 2021 with a 42% 
YOY growth in net income attributable to CLI 
shareholders, surpassing our pre-pandemic 
performance (30%). We finished strong with 
outstanding top-line growth of 35%, even as 
our reservation sales similarly proved robust 
with a 16% YOY increase.  
TURNING CHALLENGES INTO 
OPPORTUNITIES.  None of our 
accomplishments would have been 
possible if our teams did not have the 
foresight to realize and take advantage 
of the opportunities of the last two 
years of this pandemic. For example, 
we leveraged digitalization to deliver 
uninterrupted customer services. So 
far, our digital efforts have produced 
a Facebook chatbot named CLIO, 360 
Virtual Tours, a platform for virtual 
launches, a Virtual Turnover Experience 
where buyers can inspect their units 
online, an online selling exhibit called 
the CLI Homefest, and our Masters 
Portal app to allow buyers and sellers 
to track their accounts status, new projects 
and events, and construction updates. 
We likewise deepened our commitment to 
a quick project turnaround for the benefit 
of our buyers despite continued mobility 
restrictions and supply chain interruptions. Our construction activities stayed in full swing 
throughout the year to catch up for any significant 
delays in 2020. This move enabled us to maintain 
our stellar delivery track record so customers can 
immediately enjoy the fruits of their investments.
Beyond customer service, we also redefined 2021 
not as an obstacle to overcome but as an opportune 
year for greater expansion and product innovation. 
Consequently, CLI further cemented its leadership in 
VisMin with our stronger presence in hospitality and 
tourism and the launch of our third township as well as 
ten new projects.
In our continuing effort to contribute in filling in the 
region’s housing backlog, we successfully expanded 
our footprint with Casa Mira Ormoc, our first Casa Mira 
brand project in Leyte.
In July, we announced the P2.5-billion Abaca Resort 
Mactan, our first resort development.
In the following month, we signed an agreement to 
acquire and develop 14.3 hectares of Xavier University 
(XU) — Ateneo de Cagayan’s Manresa property in 
uptown Cagayan de Oro into a mixed-use university 
town called Manresa Town. The proceeds of the 
acquisition will be used to develop the new 21-hectare 
XU Masterson Campus dubbed as Campus of the 
Future, which will seamlessly blend with the adjacent 
Manresa Town, and surrounded by a 25-hectare forest 
reserve. This quickly followed our 22-hectare Davao 
Global Township and the 100-hectare Minglanilla Techno 
Business Park in Cebu — only three years since we 
ventured into township development. 
When challenges arose, CLI instantly took action. After 
Typhoon Odette wreaked havoc last December 2021, we 
worked together with the entire community to rebuild 
VisMin. Our top priority was to provide immediate support 
to our employees, homeowners, and communities where 
CLI is present. We granted financial assistance to our 
employees, ensured restoration of power and water supply 
across CLI properties, voluntarily provided PhP 30 million 
worth of free roof repairs for more than 800 affected CLI 
homeowners, and implemented a mass relief distribution 
drive over the typhoon-hit communities within and 
surrounding our development areas. 
HEIGHTENED FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY.  A vital part 
of our company’s growth strategy is having the right 
capacity and mindset to create resilient, greener mixed-
use environments, residential communities, office and 
condominium buildings, and sustainable townships. 
In 2021, we followed through on this commitment by 
conducting a stock-taking exercise to review our ability 
to create value through a sustainability lens. This 
exercise analyzed our use of capitals and resources 
while accounting for the significant risks that affect our 
communities. It also led to this publication, as shown in 
the subsequent pages of this 2021 Integrated Report. This 
report is integral to our goal of making sustainability an inherent part of our operations. With this exercise, we 
can fully use all our available data for better decision-
making, improved organizational efficiency, increased 
transparency, and enhanced brand value. 
With this move, we now have a five-pillar sustainability 
strategy and framework. This framework focuses on 
creating sustainable spaces, supporting local markets, 
conserving and managing resources and environmental 
impacts, engaging and investing in our communities, 
and achieving organizational efficiency and good 
governance. Guided by these pillars, sustainability 
will become integral to the strategy direction and 
implementation process of CLI at both board and 
management levels. 
BEYOND 2021. In strengthening our role within our 
communities through sustainability, we firmly dedicate 
ourselves to putting our company in the best possible 
position to benefit from post-pandemic recovery and 
future growth prospects. All of your company’s efforts 
and achievements in 2021 contribute to CLI’s ultimate 
goal to future-proof our company. We expanded our 
landbank to aid our growth targets by acquiring 41 
hectares of high-value land. These acquisitions bring 
our total land bank to 103 hectares worth P12 billion. 
We are also set to launch 21 pipeline projects worth 
P31.5 billion. 
Backed by solid growth drivers, our upward growth 
trajectory in 2022 and beyond is underpinned by the 
continued enhancement of our corporate governance 
measures. We have grown from two employees into 
a dynamic team of over 700 people by maintaining 
a culture of excellence and adhering to the highest 
governance standards. In 2021, we continued to go 
beyond compliance by improving CLI’s internal controls, 
risk management processes, institutionalizing checks 
and balance controls, and other governance-related 
policies and procedures. In recognition of our continued 
efforts this year, CLI received a Special Environment, 
Social and Governance (ESG) recognition from 
PropertyGuru Philippines Property Awards.
We attribute all these improvements in the VisMin 
communities we are present in to CLI’s rootedness in 
the exercise of its values of integrity, foresight, and 
discipline. What matters most to us is seeing our hard 
work and dedication transform into thriving townships 
and property developments that uplift the lives of 
people who benefit from our projects. We dedicate all 
our accomplishments and the growth we have attained, 
thus far, to our stakeholders - employees, customers, 
investors/stockholders, partners, contractors/
suppliers, residents, and tenants – who share CLI’s 
quest in creating sustainable developments that bring 
out the best in us.
JOSE SOBERANO III
Chairman and CEO
MESSAGE FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN
20 21
integrated report 2021 Message from the Chairman integrated report 2021MESSAGE FROM
THE COO
Message from the COODear CLI Family, 
When the Company overcame great adversity 
in 2020, there was such a strong belief and 
momentum that carried us forward in 2021. 
While the pandemic still presented several 
challenges during the year, our relentless 
drive to both cater to the underserved housing 
market and uplift the local real estate industry 
propelled us to surpass CLI’s pre-pandemic 
financial performance by an industry-leading 
30%. This can be attributed to a growing 
commitment to stewardship and leadership. 
CLI embraces its market leadership with a 
lot of humility, as the company feels year 
in and year out that there is always more 
value it can deliver to its homeowners, 
partners, shareholders, and community. 
We continue to blaze a meaningful and 
effective trail throughout the Visayas and 
Mindanao, reinforced by an operationally 
hands-on and responsive organization that 
is constantly seeking to make a greater 
impact in the community. 
VISMIN LEADERSHIP
When the Company was listed on the 
Philippine Stock Exchange in June 2017, CLI 
had over 11,000 residential units in various 
stages of development. As of end-December 
2021, we have tripled this to 30,000 units 
accompanied by a growing office, retail, 
hospitality, mixed-use, and township 
portfolio in over 15 of the most strategic 
VisMin hubs.  Across these 30,000 units, 
we are 90% sold out of an PhP 86.2 billion 
Total Project Value. These figures, which 
ultimately translate to a significant 
investment, represent our utmost 
commitment to the VisMin region, and it 
reflects the highly sustained and under-
tapped potential of the territory. In 2021 
alone, CLI launched ten new projects 
with over 6,000 new units in Cebu, Iloilo, 
Mandaue, Lapu-Lapu, Bacolod, Ormoc, 
and Cagayan de Oro. From these newly 
launched projects, over PhP 12.7 
billion of new reservation sales were 
generated which contributed to a 
record total of PhP 16.5 billion in new 
reservation sales in 2021, 16% more 
than the previous year. In our various trips around VisMin, it is very 
fulfilling to see our brand of development 
embraced in the region. Beyond the selling and 
development success, we are inspired by the 
new partnerships we have forged with various 
suppliers, contractors, broker partners, and 
community leaders. Market leadership means that 
we, as a company, must continue excelling to be of 
greater service to all the hardworking individuals 
and companies who depend on their respective 
local real estate industries. 
HANDS-ON AND OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP
With restrictions easing and vaccination rates 
increasing in 2021, the Company set out on a 
mission to not only be virtually connected, but 
also physically present in its various projects 
around the region. There was a persistent effort 
to travel to various project sites to ensure 
our leadership team and regional teams were 
perfectly aligned on targets and strongly attuned 
to the best expectations of our homeowners. 
Operationally, our regional offices in Davao, 
Cagayan de Oro, Dumaguete, Iloilo, Bacolod, 
Bohol, Ormoc, and Palawan were beefed 
up further to ensure our sales, accounting, 
documentation, construction management, and 
property management services were rendered 
at the highest levels while the country was 
transitioning to reopen the economy further. 
This ability of CLI to continue playing a strong 
“ground game” enables the Company to expand 
its leadership. We have always believed that real 
estate needs real interaction and real sincerity 
on the ground. This allowed us to break ground 
on several significant projects including Patria 
de Cebu in time for the 500th year of Christianity 
celebrations, Terranza Residences in Iloilo, 
Mandtra Residences in Mandaue, Masters Tower 
in Cebu Business Park; and also announce 
milestone projects with the MOA signing for 
the Xavier University Masterson Campus and 
Manresa Town in CDO, a new co-living concept 
called The Pad in Banilad, Cebu. Even the topping 
off ceremony of our multi-awarded 38 Park 
Avenue project was held live in the heart of 
Cebu IT Park, and the unveiling of our Grade A 
5-star green building Latitude Corporate Center. 
With such a productive 2021, we salute all our 
passionate real estate professionals in the CLI 
family for going above and beyond.
COMMUNITY-CENTRIC LEADERSHIP
In 2021, CLI broke ground on Cebu City’s very first 
in-city walk-up condo for informal settlers. As a 
company, this was a dream come true for us to 
ensure our brand of development reached the less fortunate. While our developments produce tens of 
thousands of employment opportunities, CLI wants 
to be part of the country’s shelter and housing 
program reaching more Filipinos. The Cebu City 
walk-up condo in Lorega Cebu is due for turnover 
to its beneficiaries in the 2nd quarter of 2022. The 
Company has also pledged a similar model for the 
cities of Mandaue and Talisay.
Towards the end of the year, several parts of the 
Visayas including Cebu were directly hit by one 
of the strongest typhoons in recent memory. First 
and foremost on our minds was the safety of our 
employees, homeowners, industry partners, and 
communities. While Cebu City was hit with city-
wide blackouts and dwindling supplies of gas and 
water, there was an immediate mobilization by 
your company to provide support and assistance. 
In just a few days, CLI announced a commitment 
to repair damaged roofs of homeowners affected 
by the Category 5 typhoon, whether or not these 
were within or beyond warranty. A total of more 
than PhP 30 million was immediately deployed 
and within a few days after the typhoon, repair 
work was already underway. This voluntary act of 
generosity and support was in line with values we 
hold dear, and these values will continue to drive 
our community-centric approach to development.  
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2022
As we approach our 5th year anniversary as a 
publicly listed company in June 2022, there is so 
much to be grateful for. We look at our leadership 
role as truly an opportunity to set the bar higher 
in terms of customer satisfaction, operational 
excellence, and community impact. This incoming 
year will welcome 21 new projects from CLI worth 
over PhP 31.5 billion. With gratitude in our hearts, 
we continue to be excited to bring our region and 
country to greater heights through real estate 
development using real action, real passion, and 
real sincerity on the ground.
Thank you dear CLI shareholders! 
Yours sincerely,
JOSE FRANCO B. SOBERANO
Executive Vice-President &
Chief Operating Officer
22 23
integrated report 202124 25 integrated report 2021 Message from the CFOMy fellow CLI shareholders,
2021 was a year of resilience and adaptation 
for CLI. The new reality we are all experiencing 
presents many challenges but also ample 
opportunities for CLI to distinguish itself and 
accelerate programs that we have been working 
on already.
The year ended with a natural disaster that 
badly hit Cebu and several areas in Visayas and 
Mindanao. The destruction Typhoon Odette caused 
was widespread, indiscriminate and unsparing. But 
amidst this, we had a business to run and people to 
look out for. Our employees sheltered in our offices, 
worked by candlelight and resorted to pen and 
paper while power was out. Many acts of Bayanihan 
were performed for and among each other, showing 
truly our core belief and value that we are not just 
builders of structures, but of communities. As a 
company, CLI has gone beyond and took an active 
part in the rebuilding spirit. We provided relief 
goods to devastated villages and also offered to 
fix the roofs of affected CLI projects free of charge, 
whether turned over or not, whether within 
warranty or not. #BangonCebu #BangonVisMin
This year, our annual report integrates a full 
sustainability report that captures all the 
initiatives and impacts your Company has always been doing. This time, everything is documented 
and measured in globally recognized metrics and 
standards. It highlights and quantifies the impacts 
we have had and how sustainability is weaved into 
our strategies, both economically and socially.
In 2022, we are resuming our full stride. We will 
continue what has made us successful – only now 
bigger and in more places. We intend to spend over 
PhP 13 billion in Capex, launch 21 projects across 
VisMin, and grow our topline and bottomline by 20%. 
We are only getting better. We are constantly 
improving our processes, governance, and systems 
so that we can continue to scale our performance 
and rise to the challenge of fulfilling all those 
unserved housing demands, especially in the VisMin 
region. On average, our completed projects are 97% 
sold and our product launches are always well-
anticipated in the markets where we are expanding.
Our ongoing hospitality assets are coming along quite 
well and are poised to capture the demand for travel 
and leisure whose return is inevitable and imminent.
We’re ready for bigger things as we also launch 
the maiden project in our first township – the 
East Village in Davao Global Township. We’ll 
also be starting construction on our 100-hectare 
reclamation project in Minglanilla, Cebu.
We are preparing the required capital for these 
plans with a deliberate and prudent approach to 
raising funds in order to accomplish our objectives 
in a sustainable way. We are working on capital 
raising plans for both equity and debt that are 
complementary to our growth strategies, that will 
enhance and offer an attractive proposition to 
existing shareholders, and will improve our credit 
fundamentals and leverage ratios. We are excited 
to share them with you when details are finalized 
and when these come to fruition.
We will strive to continually sustain the trust 
and respect of all our stakeholders as we grow 
and be a part of new and existing communities. 
All of these contribute to the essential pillar of 
nation-building by providing quality housing 
developments for the Filipino and going beyond to 
better serve the Filipino families.
Thank you for being with us.
BEAUREGARD GRANT L. CHENG, CFA
Chief Finance Officer
We remain resolute and steadfast in our 
commitment to our stakeholders. This was the 
driving energy behind our decision to take a 
leadership role in our communities and local 
economies in navigating our new normal 
environment. We may have temporarily reduced 
our speed in 2020 but we quickly adapted and 
learned. Now, we are off and running and our 2021 
results have exceeded pre-pandemic levels. 
In 2021:
We launched 10 projects across 
Visayas and Mindanao despite the 
regulatory and legal uncertainties 
that everyone had to navigate.We sold over PhP 16 billion in 
housing units, continuing our annual 
streak of record-breaking sales.
Our consolidated revenues 
increased to PhP 11 billion, with 
net income to CLI shareholders 
increasing to PhP 2.61 billion. Both 
exceed pre-pandemic levels. 
CLI’s unrealized revenues, IE the 
value of sales contracts we have 
yet to recognize as revenues, 
continue to grow and now stand at 
PhP 25 billion. This provides clear 
and reliable visibility on our future 
financial results. MESSAGE FROM 
THE CFO
2021 MILESTONES
OUR STORY 
AND 
STRATEGY
ILOILO10 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
LAUNCHED IN 2021
ORMOC
BACOLOD
CEBUCAGAYAN
DE ORO11
11
6
Our Story and Strategy
 26 27
integrated report 2021WE EXPANDED
OUR REACH
CLI expands its footprint in the Visayas and Mindanao region to cater to 
the need for well-built and value for money housing and well-planned 
communities – creating a complete and extraordinary experience. 
We launched new developments in response to the housing backlog 
and heightened desire for safe and secure homes equipped for the 
needs of the new normal. There is an estimated annual demand for 
800,000 housing units in VisMin, although the industry only produces 
200,000 units. Additionally, Lee Chiu Property Consultants noted 
that the housing backlog is predicted to reach 6.8 million housing 
units by 2022. CLI’s own CEO Jose Soberano III noted that this 
housing backlog in the region became even more apparent in 2020 as 
COVID-19 infections surged. Our Story and Strategy
 28 29
integrated report 2021We make high-quality housing accessible to 
everyday Filipinos. Casa Mira helps address this 
growing demand as CLI’s flagship economic brand 
that provides more value for buyers, aligned 
with our promise of giving More for the Filipino 
Family. Casa Mira communities offer townhouses 
and residential condominium units packaged with 
amenities that are typically packaged with higher-
priced developments. 
There are ten Casa Mira projects in Cebu, Bacolod, 
Cagayan de Oro, Iloilo, and Sibulan in Negros 
Oriental. In 2021, new Casa Mira homes were 
launched in Dumaguete, Ormoc, Puerto Princesa, 
and Davao City. We aim to continue rolling out 
more Casa Mira developments in more VisMin 
cities to fill the gap in housing demand and service 
Filipino families.  
We have been eyeing other areas such as Bohol, 
Bacolod, Dumaguete, Iloilo, General Santos, 
Butuan, and other key cities in VisMin while 
further strengthening market share in Cebu and 
Cagayan de Oro where a strong presence has 
already been established.
CLI’s projects are sought-after – most projects, 
especially in the economic and mid-market 
segment quickly sold out after launching. This 
affirms that we meet the needs and preferences of 
its markets. At the height of the pandemic in 2020, 
VisMin residents purchased Casa Mira housing 
units priced from PhP 1.6 million in record 
numbers. This resulted in sustained reservations
sales during the challenging year at PhP 14.23 
billion, accounting for 69% of reservation sales at 
the time. Velmiro Heights CDO was also launched 
successfully this year in Cagayan de Oro as the 
second horizontal project in the City. In one month 
since its market introduction, 75% of the 518 
house-and-lot units sold out. It is a mid-market 
brand that offers a wide range of house models, 
located in a highly accessible community with 
generous open spaces and unmatched views. 
In an increasingly demanding market, Cebu 
Landmasters aims to continue extending its 
developments to more areas in the VisMin region 
to serve more customers. 
WE TAPPED INTO 
NEW MARKETS
CLI continues to keep up with shifting market 
demands by diversifying its product lines. We 
have expanded our hospitality portfolio through 
beach and mountain resorts and 5-star luxury 
hotels, and have begun developing co-living 
spaces and townships.
Cebu Landmasters is expanding its township 
developments in key areas in VisMin, featuring 
residential, retail, and commercial areas. We 
have a portfolio of three township developments 
underway: the Davao Global Township (DGT), 
Manresa Town, and the Minglanilla Techno 
Business Park (Ming-Mori).
Davao Global Township is CLI’s pilot township that 
is envisioned to transform the Davao Golf Club into 
an iconic world-class business district. Phase one 
of the township includes a lifestyle mall DGT City 
Center, the DGT Cultural Center, and the 6-tower 
residential condominium The East Village at DGT 
set for pre-selling in 2022.
Manresa Town is a 14.3-hectare university town 
designed to complement the adjacent Xavier 
University Masterson Campus – a development 
that will support Xavier University’s goal of creating a more socially relevant and inclusive 
learning institution. 
CLI also increased its ownership in Ming-Mori 
Development Corporation (MMDC) from 20% to 
80% this year, showing our full commitment to the 
100-hectare reclamation and Ming-Mori project. The 
PhP 200 billion techno hub development is being 
established as Cebu’s regional growth center. 
 
CLI ventured into co-living spaces and launched its 
first location, The Pad in Banilad, Cebu City with over 
300 dormitory rooms. The mixed-use development 
has a retail space and a self-storage facility. It is at a 
highly sought-after location – attractive to students 
of the top educational institutions in the area and 
those employed in the nearby Cebu IT Park and Cebu 
Business Park (CBP).
In 2021, CLI debuted Costa Mira Beachtown Mactan, 
the very first beachfront condominium in a projected 
series. With 659 units valued at P3 billion, the 
condominium and resort living are proven enticing 
for new clients after 92% of it was already sold a 
month after it opened to the public. The project 
accounted for 17% of overall sales in its first years.
Cebu Landmasters also undertakes resort 
development in preparation for the tourism 
sector’s recovery. The projects are intended for 
travelers who seek unique experiences,  especially 
as the COVID-19 pandemic conditions improve. 
We have introduced and will continue launching 
various resort and luxury hotel developments in 
the coming years such as Abaca Resort Mactan, 
MagSpeak Mountain Resort, and Masters Tower 
Cebu which will also house Sofitel Cebu City.30 31
integrated report 2021WE BUILT LARGER 
COMMUNITIES
CLI creates an extraordinary experience 
for stakeholders in every step of the real 
estate journey, developing properties within 
communities with master plans that address the 
needs and desires of customers. We continue 
to expand and will introduce the Davao Global 
Township (DGT), Manresa Town, and the 
Minglanilla Techno Business Park (Ming-Mori) in 
the areas of Davao City, Cagayan de Oro City, and 
Cebu City, respectively. 
The first phase of the 22-hectare Davao 
Global Township includes its first residential 
development The East Village at DGT, a civic 
center DGT Cultural Center, and a commercial 
area and lifestyle center DGT City Center. The 
East Village is inspired by the rich culture 
and life in Davao City, designed with modern 
connectivity, sustainability, and accessibility in 
mind. The DGT Cultural Center hosts a collection 
of exceptional facilities, showrooms, museum 
spaces, performance theaters, office spaces, and 
function rooms to nurture the local talents and 
art scene. At the heart of the township, the DGT 
City Center features modern retail and dining 
options for locals and tourists. 
Ming-Mori is Cebu Landmasters’ third large-scale 
township project, envisioned to transform the area 
into a dynamic economic zone. At 100 hectares, 
Ming-Mori is master-planned to accommodate 
workers and families alike, with areas for schools, 
churches, and commercial areas nearby light 
industrial zones. This development is aligned 
with Metro Cebu’s roadmap to achieve the 2050 
vision of enhancing the region’s competitiveness, 
providing convenient transportation networks, and 
creating a pleasing and productive environment. 
When more areas are available, we plan to create 
a vibrant waterfront community with businesses, 
lifestyle establishments, and industries that foster 
sustainable value creation. 
Manresa Town is an ongoing township 
development in CDO City, a mixed-use university 
town providing students with convenient and safe 
residential options, accessible establishments, 
healthy open spaces, and an overall conducive 
learning environment. 
CLI is set to develop the Xavier University (XU) 
Masterson Campus dubbed the “Campus of the 
Future” within Manresa Town. The new Campus 
aims to catalyze development in Northern Abaca Resort Mactan is set to open in 2025, which 
is CLI’s first resort development. We purchased 
the property in 2019 and have signed up the 
Abaca Group to continue operating the hotel and 
providing luxury experiences tailored for local and 
global tourists. CLI tapped an award-winning and 
internationally renowned architectural firm Büro 
Ole Scheeren for the project. Their most notable 
works include the MahaNakhon skyscraper in 
Bangkok and the DUO development and The 
Interlace in Singapore, the former two of which 
are the recipients of the CTBUH Urban Habitat 
Award 2020 and the World Building of the Year 
2015, respectively. The 125-room expanded 
luxury boutique hotel aims to entice the emerging 
demographic of global travelers seeking world-
class, authentic, and unique holiday experiences. 
CLI hopes to contribute to Cebu’s development as 
a thriving tourist destination through this project. 
MagSpeak Mountain Resort is a 113,000 sqm 
secluded mountain resort located in Balamban, 
Cebu that will cater to families and religious 
devotees who want to experience a relaxing 
mountain escape, while enjoying the serene 
mountainscape of Mt. Manunggal Peak. 
Masters Tower Cebu will be completed in 2025, 
offering prime office and retail spaces and 
integrating Sofitel Cebu in the Queen City of the 
South. The 2,840 sqm property was designed 
by Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill (SOM), an 
acclaimed architectural, urban planning, and engineering firm that has designed some of the 
most advanced buildings and public spaces 
considering sustainability and technical design. 
We also partnered with GF Partners and 
Architects in designing the property, which is one 
of the country’s top architectural firms. Masters 
Tower Cebu is valued at over PhP 4.0 billion and 
will rise at the remaining prime corner lot in CBP, 
which is Cebu City’s prestigious central business 
district. Through its partnership with Accor, CLI 
will debut the 195-room Sofitel Cebu luxury hotel 
which is among the pipeline of 17 committed 
projects across the country. Cebu Landmasters is 
determined to achieve a LEED Gold certification for 
the property as it integrates sustainable design.  
We will keep expanding its portfolio beyond 
residential properties and plans to be a key player 
in other industries such as tourism. Mindanao with a Sustainable and New Normal-
ready Masterplan. With our vision, XU Masterson 
Campus will blend seamlessly with the adjacent 
Manresa Town – creating strong synergies that 
will benefit the University and the surrounding 
uptown community. 
Cebu Landmasters has more in store for the 
VisMin real estate market, as we aim to introduce 
more townships in key locations, expand to new 
areas in the region, and tap into diverse markets. 
Our Story and Strategy32 33
integrated report 2021WE ACCELERATED 
OUR PERFORMANCE
Cebu Landmasters surpassed past performance 
records despite the ongoing pandemic. We hit 
record reservation sales for residential properties 
at PhP 16.5 billion in 2021 – a 16% increase 
compared to PhP 14.5 billion in 2020. CLI has 
rapidly expanded since its listing in June 2017 
and has now more than doubled its PhP 7.7 billion 
sales take-up during that year.
We are at the forefront of meeting the sustained 
housing demand in VisMin. We launched 10 
projects worth PhP 18 billion this year and 
provided 3,865 new residential units. This is also 
more than the eight projects last year that were 
worth PhP 11.5 billion. 
By year-end 2021, 97% of CLI’s completed projects 
were sold out and projects under construction 
were 93% taken up. Even as new projects were 
launched, 68% of them were also immediately 
sold. In total, 89% of CLI’s portfolio sold out across 
different project development stages.
Our VisMin roots greatly contributed to CLI’s 
accelerated growth and market leadership in the 
region. Most sales taken up are projects in Cebu 
accounting for 48% of sales, followed by Iloilo 
(17%) and Cagayan de Oro (13%) with the rest 
coming from the expanding portfolio in areas such 
as Davao Ormoc, Bacolod, and Bohol.
Cebu Landmasters will release fresh inventory 
in 2022 to optimize its current landbank of 100 
hectares valued at PhP 12 billion, and meet the 
supply needs of the housing market in VisMin. 
With our expanding capital, we aim to further 
accelerate our performance and maintain our 
status as an industry leader in the region.
WE FUELED 
OUR RECURRING 
REVENUE
CLI envisions further growth in the region, part 
of which is investing in capital to fuel recurring 
revenue from both hospitality, business, and 
leasing. We plan to build up our office, retail, 
and hospitality portfolio’s GLA to 200,000 sqm – 
eventually contributing to 10% of our growing top 
line in three to five years. 
WE ARE POISED 
FOR ECONOMIC 
RECOVERYCebu Landmasters doubles down on its residential 
development expertise to further cater to the 
growing pandemic-induced desire for home-
ownership. We expanded Casa Mira to different 
areas, introduced Velmiro Heights, and developed 
other residential projects across VisMin. 
As local companies and industries continue to 
grapple with the challenges that come with the 
extended pandemic, Cebu Landmasters seized this 
opportunity by breaking ground on new projects, 
continuing our construction operations, expanding 
our landbank, and penetrating the tourism market. 
We broke ground on  new projects such as the 
Patria de Cebu and Abaca Resort Mactan, Mandtra 
Residences in Mandaue City, Masters Tower 
Cebu, and Minglanilla Techno Business Park – all 
catering to diverse industries. These contribute to 
our landbank, allowing us to sustain our growth 
and venture into new markets. 
As the economy has been reopening, CLI 
anticipates industries such as the IT-BPO sectors 
to gradually return to office spaces. We are 
well-positioned to address this demand as we 
continue to launch properties such as the recently 
opened 5-Star BERDE-certified green building 
Latitude Corporate Center. The PhP 1.2 billion 
office development increased CLI’s office GLA from 
14,000 sqm to 29,000 sqm year-on-year. Aside 
from this, CLI has over 47,000 sqm of additional 
office and retail GLA currently under construction.
Cebu Landmasters is ready to cater to the 
need for safe and sustainable properties. The 
Latitude Corporate Center’s five-star Building for 
Ecologically Responsive Design Excellence (BERDE) 
accreditation attests to its sustainable design.  
Followed by the Abaca Resort Mactan’s opening in 
2024, CLI targets to increase its hotel portfolio to 
1,433 by the following year. We will cater to a diverse 
range of local and global travelers as we partner 
with more hotel operators like The Abaca Group. 
CLI cements its leadership in the VisMin property 
development industry and is positioned for 
accelerating demands as the economy recovers. 
We have been breaking records, expanding our 
portfolio, and venturing into new markets. 
Our Story and Strategy34 35
integrated report 2021WE SUSTAINED 
OUR MARKET 
LEADERSHIP
We were able to top off developments such as the 
Latitude Corporate Center and 38 Park Avenue 
by continuing construction with added health 
protocols. These developments are in line with 
our strategy to build up our GLA to 200,000 sqm, 
allowing our office, retail, and hospitality portfolio 
to contribute 10% of CLI’s growing topline.
In a joint venture with El Camino Developers Inc., 
we topped off the 38 Park Avenue development – a 
PhP 3.5 billion high-end tower nestled right at the 
heart of the Cebu IT Park. This is the first of the 
three-phased mixed-use development within a 
1.2-hectare property in the highest valued location 
in Metro Cebu which will offer upscale residential 
units and a lifestyle center within The Plaza, a 
wide park with retail area, and other amenities 
that are in the planning stage.  
More than ever, travelers are seeking high-
quality destinations that provide authentic 
experiences. CLI signed a lease agreement with 
the Archdiocese of Cebu to redevelop the Patria 
de Cebu into a mixed-use complex with 21,000 
sqm GLA and incorporate a 182-room international 
hotel. The redevelopment will have 4,320 sqm 
of food, dining and entertainment spaces, and 
4,400 sqm of offices within Cebu’s historic center CLI has remained the top residential developer in the 
Visayas and Mindanao region for three consecutive 
years. We hit record-high sales for our quality 
and safe residential units to customers, which has 
become especially important amid the ongoing 
pandemic. We consistently meet market demands 
and continue to expand our portfolio, venturing into 
other industries as the economy continues to recover. 
CLI continued expanding our housing portfolios 
such as the Mandtra Residences and Terranza 
Residences for condominium developments, and 
the Casa Mira South expansion and Velmiro Heights 
CDO for subdivisions developments. In launching these new projects, CLI’s market share grew by 
18% with 9,168 units of condominiums and by 19% 
with 10,190 residential units in subdivisions.
Since 2020, we have maintained our market 
leadership in the residential segment.The Santos 
Knight Frank (SKF) Real Estate Market Study in 
Q3 2020 shows that Cebu Landmasters remains 
the leading residential developer in VisMin, 
supplying the most number of residential units in 
the region. According to the study, CLI is ahead 
of other developers in the country, accounting for 
18,683 units or 12% of the 86,126 residential units 
available in VisMin. The closest rivals then were 
Sta. Lucia Realty and Development and Camella 
Homes, contributing 11,897 units and 11,768 units, 
respectively. This also revealed CLI’s projects were 
the most saleable as they exhibited an absorption 
rate of 83% and sales take up of 210 units a month.   
The Company has the most number of unit launches 
for both the subdivision and condominium market. 
Our properties make up 26% of the total subdivision 
market share, followed by Johndorf Ventures at 12%. 
For vertical projects, CLI dominates the market by 
providing 33% of condominium units while SMDC 
comes second with 7% of market share.
CLI’s sustained excellence is backed by the 
multiple awards bestowed in 2021 in the Asia 
Property Awards, among those being the Best 
Developer Awards for Visayas and for Mindanao. 
We will continue to go above and beyond the 
needs of the market, providing extraordinary 
properties and experiences.
– keeping the area’s rich heritage intact while 
offering novel experiences. 
We are poised for the growing interest in tourism, 
establishing a hotel portfolio that accommodates 
various demographics of travelers. For instance, 
CLI targets business travelers with the now 
fully operational Citadines Cebu City and other 
properties underway such as Citadines Bacolod 
City and Citadines Paragon Davao. Hotels like the 
Radisson RED Cebu Mandaue and Lyf Cebu City 
cater to the younger market of digital nomads. For 
those seeking budget-friendly accommodations, 
we developed the Mercure Cebu Downtown. In 
contrast, CLI also offers a unique and deluxe 
experience through the Abaca Resort Mactan and 
Sofitel Cebu City luxury hotels.  
Cebu Landmasters has proven itself to be 
resilient – even thriving amid crises. As the 
country is getting back on its feet, we will continue 
contributing to economic growth in the region. 
Our Story and StrategyPROJECT
SUMMARY
As a customer-centric and community-focused real estate company, 
Cebu Landmasters develops projects that cater to the needs 
and demands of our stakeholders in Visayas and Mindanao. The 
diversity our real estate portfolio offers allows us to provide varying 
services across numerous markets, whether residential, mixed-use 
developments, hotels and resorts, offices and retail, and townships 
and estates.   
WE DEVELOP WELL-PLANNED, 
SUSTAINABLE, INCLUSIVE AND 
RESILIENT SPACES
PILLAR 1: PRODUCTOUR 
BUSINESS
36 37
integrated report 2021TOTAL PROJECTSResidential
Mixed-use
Hotels and Resorts
Co-Living
Offices and Retail
Townships and Estates  
11935
62
22COMPLETED PROJECTS
ONGOING PROJECTS
PLANNING STAGE/2022 PIPELINE82
9
18
316
Our Business38 39
integrated report 2021
PROJECT CATEGORIES
PREMIER MASTERS
CASA MIRAGARDEN SERIES
BEACHTOWN RESIDENCES
MIXED-USE
RESIDENCES
OFFICES AND RETAIL
HOTELS AND RESORTS
CO-LIVING
TOWNSHIPS AND ESTATES
Our Business01RESIDENCES
Subdivisions, Condominiums, and Beach Towns
PREMIER MASTERS
40 41
integrated report 2021
Asia Premier Residences 
J.M. Del Mar St., Cebu I.T. Park, Apas, Cebu City
1,038 sqm
Completed
Base Line Premier 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
1.1 ha
CompletedBase Line Residences 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
1,500 sqm
Completed
38 Park Avenue 
India St. Cor. JM Del Mar St., Cebu It Park, Cebu
1.18 ha
Ongoing
Our Business42 43
integrated report 2021
01
Base Line Prestige 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmena Street, Cebu City
1 ha
Ongoing
Mandtra Residences 
Mandaue City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 3
1.24 ha
OngoingOne Astra Place 
Astra Centre, A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
Tower 1
Tower 2
1.23 ha
Ongoing
One Paragon Place 
Matina, Davao City
1.94 ha
Ongoing
Our Business44 45
integrated report 2021
01
01
The East Village at DGT 
Matina, Davao City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 3
Tower 4
OngoingTerranza Residences 
Arroyo St., Iloilo City
2,539 sqm
Ongoing
Tower 5
Tower 6
Planning Stage
Ramos Tower at Calle 104 
F. Ramos St. Cogon, Cebu City
5,539 sqm
Planning Stage
Ranudo Tower at Calle 104 
Ranudo St., Cebu City
5,539 sqm
Planning Stage2.5 ha
Our Business46 47
integrated report 2021
01
GARDEN SERIES
MesaTierra Garden Residences 
E. Jacinto Ext., Davao City
5,094 sqm
CompletedMidori Plains 
Tungkop, Minglanilla, Cebu
7 ha
Completed
MesaVerte Garden Residences 
Osmeña Ext., Cagayan de Oro City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 3
8,740 sqm
CompletedMidori Residences 
A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
5,200 sqm
Completed
Our Business48 49
integrated report 2021
01
Mivesa Garden Residences 
Lahug, Cebu City
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
San Jose Maria Village 
Balamban
3 ha
Minglanilla
3.1 haVelmiro Heights 
Tunghaan, Minglanilla, Cebu
8.8 ha
Completed
MesaVirre Garden Residences 
Lacson St., Bacolod City
Building A
Building B
Building C1 ha
Ongoing1.8 ha
Completed
Talisay
2 ha
Toledo
3 ha
Completed
Our Business50 51
integrated report 2021
Mivela Garden Residences 
Apas, Cebu City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 3
Tower 4
Velmiro Greens Bohol 
Biking, Dauis, Panglao, Bohol
3.6 ha
Ongoing1.142 ha
Planning Stage1.26 ha
OngoingVelmiro Heights CDO 
Brgy. Agusan, Cagayan de Oro
12 ha
Ongoing
Velmiro Plains Bacolod 
Brgy. Granada, Bacolod City
8.12 ha
Ongoing
Our Business52 53
integrated report 2021
Velmiro Uptown CDO 
Upper Canitoan, Cagayan de Oro
14.3 ha
Ongoing
Velmiro Heights Consolacion 
Tolotolo, Consolacion
10.2 ha
Planning Stage
Velmiro Heights Davao 
Magtuod, Davao City
11.6 ha
Planning Stage
CASA MIRACASA MIRA
Casa Mira Coast 
Sibulan, Negros Oriental
5.3 ha
Completed
Casa Mira Linao 
Linao, Minglanilla, Cebu
7.8 ha
CompletedPhase 3 
14, 919 sqm
Ongoing
Our Business54 55
integrated report 2021
Casa Mira South 
Bordering Langtad City of Naga and Pitalo San Fernando
Phase 3 A
Phase 3 B
Phase 4 A
Phase 4 B
OngoingPhase 5
Planning Stage 
39 haPhase 1 A
Phase 1 B
Phase 2 A
Phase 2 B
Completed
Casa Mira Towers Labangon 
Salvador Street, Labangon, Cebu City
Tower 1
Tower 2
4,448 sqm
CompletedCasa Mira Homes Bacolod 
Brgy. Granada, Bacolod City
4.5 ha
Ongoing
Casa Mira Homes Dumaguete
Brgy. Junob, Dumaguete City
Phase 1
Phase 2
OngoingPhase 2
Planning Stage7 ha
Our Business56 57
integrated report 2021
01
Casa Mira Homes Ormoc 
Brgy. Luna, Ormoc City
9.1 ha
Ongoing
Casa Mira Iloilo 
Brgy. Camalig, Jaro, Ilo-Ilo City
14 ha
OngoingCasa Mira Towers LPU Davao 
CP Garcia Highway, Brgy. Sasa, Davao City
Tower 1
Tower 2
7, 604 sqm
OngoingExpansion
Planning Stage
Casa Mira Towers Bacolod 
Lacson St. Brgy. Bata, Bacolod City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 3
Tower 41.1 ha
Ongoing
Our Business58 59
integrated report 2021
Casa Mira Towers CDO 
Brgy. Kauswagan, Cagayan de Oro City
Tower 1
Tower 2
6,315 sqm
Ongoing
Casa Mira Towers Guadalupe 
Guadalupe, Cebu City
Tower 1
Tower 2
Tower 34,794 sqm
OngoingCasa Mira Towers Mandaue 
Brgy. Ibabao, Mandaue City
Tower 2
Tower 3
Tower 4
OngoingTower 1
Planning Stage 
1.14 ha
Casa Mira Homes Danao 
Guinsay, Danao City
8 ha
Planning Stage
Our Business60 61
integrated report 2021
BEACHTOWN RESIDENCESBEACHTOWN RESIDENCES
Casa Mira Homes Davao 
Magtuod, Davao City
13.58 ha
Planning Stage
Casa Mira Towers Palawan 
Puerto Princesa, Palawan
• Phase 1
• 2 ha
• OngoingCosta Mira Beachtown Mactan 
Subabasbas, Mactan, Cebu
Tower 1
Tower 2
Ongoing
1.85 haTower 3
Planning Stage
Costa Mira Beachtown Panglao 
Barangay Totolan, Dauis, Panglao, Bohol
1 ha
Planning Stage
Our Business62 63
integrated report 2021
01
SOCIALIZED HOUSINGSOCIALIZED HOUSING
Villa Casita Balamban 
Brgy. Buanoy, Balamban, Cebu
8,000 sqm
Completed
Villa Casita North 
Brgy. La Paz, Bogo City
4.8 ha
CompletedExpansion
Planning Stage
Base Line Center 
Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
• 1.02 ha
• CompletedMIXED-USED PROJECTSMIXED-USED PROJECTS
Pinamalayan Socialized Housing 
Oriental Mindoro
3.86 ha
Completed
Base Line Center 
Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
1.02 ha
Completed
Our Business64 65
integrated report 2021
38 Park Avenue 
India St. Cor. JM Del Mar St., Cebu It Park, Cebu
1.18 ha
Ongoing
Astra Centre 
A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
1.2 ha
Ongoing
Banilad High Street 
Banilad, Cebu City
7,500 sqm
Ongoing
Masters Tower Cebu 
Cebu Business Park, Cebu City
Ongoing
Our Business66 67
integrated report 2021
Patria de Cebu
Patria de Cebu, P. Gomez St., Cebu City
6,670 sqm
Ongoing
The Paragon Davao 
MacArthur Highway. Matina, Davao City
1.9 ha
OngoingCalle 104 
F. Ramos St. Cogon, Cebu City
32,605 sqm GFA
Planning Stage
OFFICES AND RETAILOFFICES AND RETAIL
Base Line Center (Retail) 
Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
10,258 sqm GLA
Completed
Our Business68 69
integrated report 2021
Base Line HQ 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmena Street, Cebu City
2,117 sqm GFA
Completed
Latitude Corporate Center 
Mindanao Avenue, Cebu Business Park, Cebu City
21,000 sqm GFA; 2.35 HA
Completed
Latitude Corporate Center (Retail) 
Mindanao Avenue, Cebu Business Park, Cebu City
Completed
Park Centrale Tower 
J.M. Del Mar St., Cebu I.T. Park, Apas, Cebu City
11,920 sqm GFA
Completed
Our Business70 71
integrated report 2021
Astra Centre Lifestyle Mall 
Astra Centre, A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
10,925.26 sqm GLA; 14,215.39 sqm GFA
Ongoing
Astra Corporate Center 
Astra Centre, A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
18,823 sqm GFA
Ongoing
DGT Cultural Center 
Matina, Davao City
2,988 sqm GFA; 703 sqm GLA
OngoingDGT City Center 
Matina, Davao City
17,430 sqm GFA; 10,372 sqm GLA
Ongoing
Our Business72 73
integrated report 2021
Masters Tower Cebu Office Component 
Cebu Business Park, Cebu City
2,804 sqm
Ongoing
Masters Tower Retail 
Cebu Business Park
2,804 sqm
Ongoing
Patria de Cebu (Retail) 
Patria de Cebu, P. Gomez St., Cebu City
4,320 sqm GFA
Ongoing
Patria de Cebu Office 
Patria de Cebu, P. Gomez St., Cebu City
5,336 sqm
Ongoing
Our Business74 75
integrated report 2021
Shoppes at Banilad High Street 
The Pad, Banilad, Cebu City
Ongoing
The Paragon Davao Convention Center 
MacArthur Highway, Matina, Davao City
4,842 sqm GFA
Ongoing
The Plaza @ 38 Park Avenue 
India St. Cor. JM Del Mar St., Cebu It Park, Cebu
1,898.58 sqm GLA
OngoingThe Paragon Davao Lifestyle Mall 
The Paragon Davao, MacArthur Highway, Matina, Davao City
4,564 sqm GLA
Ongoing
Our Business76 77
integrated report 2021
HOTELS AND RESORTSHOTELS AND RESORTS
Citadines Cebu City 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
180 rooms
Completed
Abaca Resort Mactan 
Punta Engano, Lapu-Lapu City, Mactan
125 rooms
Ongoing
Citadines Bacolod City 
Brgy. Bata, Bacolod City
200 rooms
Ongoing
Citadines Paragon Davao 
Gen. MacArthur Highway, Brgy. Bucana, Davao City
263 rooms
Ongoing
Our Business78 79
integrated report 2021
lyf Cebu City 
Base Line Center, Juana Osmeña Street, Cebu City
163 rooms
Ongoing
MagsPeak Mountain Resort 
Balamban, Cebu
20 rooms and 17 villas
113,000 sqm
Ongoing
Mercure Downtown Cebu 
Patria de Cebu, P. Burgos St., Cebu City
167 rooms
Ongoing
Radisson RED Cebu Mandaue 
Astra Centre, A.S. Fortuna St., Banilad, Mandaue City
146 rooms
Ongoing
Our Business80 81
integrated report 2021
Sofitel Cebu City 
Masters Tower Cebu, Cebu Business Park
195 rooms
Ongoing
CO-LIVINGCO-LIVING
The Pad 
Banilad, Cebu City
258 rooms
7,500 sqm
Ongoing
TOWNSHIPS AND ESTATESTOWNSHIPS AND ESTATES
Davao Global Township 
Gen. MacArthur Highway, Matina, Davao City
22 ha
Ongoing
Manresa Town 
Uptown Area, Cagayan de Oro
14.3 ha
Ongoing
Our Business82 83
integrated report 2021
Minglanilla Techno Business Park (Ming-Mori) 
Minglanilla, Cebu
100 ha
Ongoing
Davao Global Township Lots 
Matina, Davao City
27 lots
4.73 ha
Ongoing
Our BusinessCORPORATE 
SUSTAINABILITY BEYOND 
GENERATIONS
1
STRATEGIC PLANNING/BUSINESS REVIEW 
MATERIALITY EXERCISE*
SUSTAINABILITY 
STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT
REPORTING
(BASED ON GLOBAL 
STANDARDS) 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
(GAP ANALYSIS & IDENTIFICATION
OF AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT)REVIEW OF INTERNAL
BUSINESS PROCESSES, 
OBJECTIVES, TARGETS
AND PROGRAMSENGAGEMENT/DEVELOPING 
SUSTAINABILITY CULTUREEMBEDDING/CONTINUOUS 
IMPROVEMENT
ACT
CHECKPLAN
DOStock-taking Exercise
Vision, Mission, Core Values, Strategy, Business 
Model, Key Business Activities
• 5-pillar strategy organized around  
EESG Metrics
• Sustainability Governance
• Establishing Data Management Tools
• Collaboration and Capability Building2
3
4
5678CLI sees sustainability as something beyond a goal, rather, it is a continuous journey. At the 
core of our approach is the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle model, which is a tool that allows 
us to plan for change, test the plan, review the outcome, and apply what was learned. Cebu Landmasters, Inc. fully recognizes the economic, social and environmental 
impacts of real estate development and the importance of sustainability in 
delivering its vision to become the most customer-centric and community-focused 
organization in the Visayas and Mindanao.
We are committed to creating long-term value for our business and stakeholders 
by driving innovation and improving the quality of life of our people, customers 
and communities while we strive to manage  our environmental impacts 
responsibly, ethically and with transparency.
OUR APPROACH and JOURNEY TO SUSTAINABILITYSTATEMENT OF COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
84 85
integrated report 2021*A detailed discussion on Cebu Landmasters’ Materiality Process can be found on page 86
Beyond GenerationsOur value chain encompassing strategic landbanking to property management means that our operations 
involve various stakeholders. The key stakeholder groups. To determine the interests of these stakeholder 
groups and verify our material topics, we conducted stakeholder mapping and engagements via digital 
innovations. We facilitated online systems for brokers and sellers and organized virtual launches, project 
turnovers, virtual meetings, online learning, and work sessions.STEP 1
STEP 2
STEP 3
STEP 4
STEP 5Strategic Alignment
Identification of Material Impacts, Risks, 
and Opportunities
Identification of Material Impacts, Risks, 
and Opportunities
Prioritization of Material Topics
Stakeholder Mapping and Engagement
Sustainability Strategy Development
Integrated 5-Pillar Strategy and EESG MetricsMATERIALITY PROCESS
Steps leading to the development of CLI’s Sustainability Strategy
KEY STAKEHOLDER GROUPSINTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS IN THE VALUE DELIVERY CHAIN
BUSNESS
DEVELOPMENT
DESIGN
TECHNICAL
PLANNINGCONSTRUCTION
ENGINEERINGSALES
LEASING
HOTEL
OPERATIONS
CUSTOMER
RELATIONS
ACCOUNTS
MANAGEMENTSTRATEGIC
LANDBANKINGPROPERTY
MANAGEMENT
• Business Dev’t 
Team
• Technical 
Consultants
• Land Owners / 
Project Partners• Project Teams: 
Engineering
• Contractors / 
Suppliers
• Skilled Labor
• Regulators
• Utility Providers
• Communities / 
Publics• Marketing, 
Sales, Leasing 
& Customer 
Relations Teams
• Brokers / Sellers
• Buyers
• Hotel Guests
• Suppliers
• Media• Team of Technical 
Consultants / 
Urban Planners / 
Architects
• LGU / Regulators 
/ National 
Government 
Agencies
• Communities• Property Mgt 
Team
• Property 
Occupants: 
homeowners, 
locators, tenants, 
merchants
• Providers of 
Outsourced 
Services / Other 
Suppliers
• Regulators
• Utility Providers
• Communities
Employees
Direct/Indirect 
Hires
Team of 
Technical 
Consultants
Urban Planners/
Architects and 
Engineers
Contractors/
Suppliers
Workforce/Labor
Utility 
ProvidersBusiness 
Partners
Land/Property 
Owners
Institutional 
Investors/
providers of 
capital
Individual
Shareholders
Financial 
Analysts
Banks/
Financial 
Institutions/
CreditorsBuyers
End-users of 
Products
Homeowners 
Associations
Brokers/
Sellers
Hotel Guests
Homeowners 
Association
Condo 
Corporations
Office/Retail 
Space TenantsRegulators/
Government 
Agencies
Partner 
Communities
Informal Settler 
Families, 
Fisherfolks, 
Farmers’ Coop, 
Vulnerable 
Sector, Women’s 
Organizations
Media 
PartnersGRI 102-40MATERIALITY PROCESS
The materiality process guides us in our attempt to become a more sustainable company. This involves 
an internal alignment of our values and strategies, determining and assessing our capitals, identifying the 
material topics or top concerns, and verifying this with our key stakeholders. Through this process, we are 
able to crystallize our commitment to sustainability and forge a clear path to achieve this.
86 87
integrated report 2021
 Beyond Generations88 89
integrated report 2021The extensive quantitative and qualitative assessments revealed our economic, 
environment, social and governance material topics. The matrix shows which topics our 
stakeholders find most crucial.
THEME MATERIAL TOPIC WHY IT MATTERS WHO ARE AFFECTED
Economic 
Value 
Generation and 
Distribution
Resource 
Management
Human Capital/
Employee 
Management
Board 
Composition 
and 
ResponsibilitiesSignificant 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts
Environmental 
Impact 
Management
Customer 
Management
Community 
Engagement• Economic Value Generated, Distributed  
& Retained
• Significant Indirect Economic Impacts  
Products for Low-Income Segment
• Workforce Supported in the Supply Chain
• Local Sourcing
• Procurement Practices
• Anti Corruption
• Climate-related Financial Impacts
• Baseline Measurements
• Land, Water, Energy, Materials
• Impacts/Mitigation
• GHG Emissions
• Solid Waste
• Effluents
• Hazardous Waste
• Adaptation
• Green Buildings
• Innovations
• Ecosystems Protection
• Employee Health and Well-being
• Compliance to Labor Standards
• Training and Development
• Diversity and Equal Opportunity
• Marketing and Labeling
• Customer Privacy
• Customer Health and Safety
• Local Communities: Partnerships and 
Development Programs
• Governance Policies: Board Composition     
and Responsibilities
• Risk Management
• IT/Digitalization• CLI ensures long-term shareholder 
value; helps grow local markets and 
contributes to the local economy in the 
area where it serves
• The company relies on contractors with 
both local and national experience to 
build real estate products
• CLI conducts its business in an  
ethical manner
• CLI ensures that its products are 
resilient against climate change  
impacts and hazards
• These are natural capitals needed to 
develop CLI’s products; CLI commits to 
manage resource use in our commercial 
properties and construction sites.
• CLI’s business operations have impacts 
to the environment from design 
development, construction to operations
• CLI invests in its human capital and 
prioritizes its employees’ health and 
wellbeing and promotes equality in   
the workplace
• CLI strives to be customer-centric; 
improves its systems to enhance 
customer experience
• CLI values its relationship with its 
partners; provides needed resources to 
improve living conditions of families in its 
partner/host communities
• CLI conducts its business in a 
responsibly, professionally, ethically and 
with transparency and accountability• Employees
• Customers
• Host/partner communities
• Employees
• Customers
• Business Partners• Shareholders
• Suppliers/Local
• Communities
• Workforce
• Business Operations
• Customers
• Business Operations
• Customers/End users of products
• EnvironmentsMATERIAL TOPICS FOR DISCLOSURE
Economic
Environment
Social
Governance
Beyond GenerationsFIVE-PILLAR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Real estate development is bound to affect the economic, social, and environmental landscape. Recognizing our 
possible impact, we are committed to generating positive and long-term value for CLI and our stakeholders. We 
aim to achieve this goal through the Five-Pillar Strategy. This strategy is shaped by our economic, environmental, 
social, and governance (EESG) metrics that aim to mitigate the issues and risks in the four facets. 
Cebu Landmasters is creating a lasting impact by identifying five pillars, which guide us in our sustainability 
journey. These Five Pillars include Product, Profit and Progress, Planet, People, and Process and Practice.
DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT SPACES
GROWING THE BUSINESS AND SUPPORTING 
LOCAL MARKETS
CONSERVING RESOURCES AND 
MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
ENGAGING AND INVESTING IN OUR 
PEOPLE, CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES
ACHIEVING ORGANIZATIONAL 
EFFICIENCY AND GOOD CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCEPRODUCT
PROFIT/PROGRESS
PLANET
PEOPLE
PROCESS/PRACTICEProduct Quality and 
affordability
Economic Value Creation 
and Distribution
Energy, Water
Materials
Employee 
Welfare
Legal and 
Compliance Data Security/
PrivacyDigital 
Innovation
Organizational Alignment/
Optimizing Internal 
Business ProcessesESG Monitoring/ 
Investor 
CommunicationsEffective Risk 
Management 
and Business 
CommunityLocal Sourcing
Biodiversity Management 
Ecosystems Protection
Diversity and Equal 
OpportunityFinancial Impacts due to
climate-related risks
Climate Risk 
Mitigation and 
Adaptation
Customer 
Feedback and 
Satisfaction
Stakeholder 
EngagementCommunity 
Development 
ProgramsIndirect Economic 
Impacts
Emissions 
Management
Employee and 
Customer Health 
and SafetyProcurement Practices
Waste 
Management
Training and 
Organizational 
DevelopmentProduct Eco-efficency
Product Resilience 
and SafteyRisk-based Project 
Management
Diversified Product 
PortfolioProviding products for the 
low-income segment
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITYCHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGERSUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
PRODUCT PLANET PEOPLEPROFIT / 
PROGRESSPROCESS / 
PRACTICE
Develop innovative and 
resilient real estate 
products that meet 
changing customer 
needs; sustain and 
strengthen market 
leadership in VisMin
Business Development
Technical Planning
Engineering
Property Management
ERM CommitteeBusiness Development
Finance
Investor Relations
Supply ChainBusiness Development
Technical Planning
Engineering
Property ManagementHuman Resources-Admin
Sales & Customer Relations
External Affairs
CLI Foundation/Community 
RelationsLegal and Compliance
Risk Management
Investor Relations
Human Resources-Admin
Information TechnologyConserve resources, 
manage environmental 
impacts, protect 
ecosystems and 
implement mitigation 
and adaptation 
measures of projects 
and climate related 
risks and opportunitiesProvide the best 
customer experience, 
be the best employer 
and the most 
community-focused 
organization by 
engaging and investing 
our human, social and 
relationship capitalsIncrease profitability 
and ensure business 
growth, secure long-
term shareholder 
value, gain access to 
capital to the local 
economy through local 
sourcingImprove internal 
business processes and 
operational efficiencies, 
comply with all 
regulations, increase 
transparency through 
enhanced investor 
communication, 
manage risks and drive 
technological innovationGRI 102-19 GRI 102-32 GRI 102-20SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Corporate Secretary
Compliance Officer
Executive
CommitteeCorporate
GovermanceRelated Party
TransactionsRisk
OversightNominationCompensation
and BenefitsAudit
President
and CEO
EVP and COO Corporate Sustainability Officer
Sustainability ManagerSustainability Committee/Technical 
Working Group at the Management LevelSUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Board Committees
Beyond Generations
 90 91
integrated report 2021CLI is dedicated to creating a genuine and lasting impact on the environment, economy, and society. To 
accomplish this, we set specific goals per pillar and delegated authority – thereby creating a chain of 
responsibility that will keep us on track in our sustainability journey. CREATING AND 
DISTRIBUTING
ECONOMIC VALUE
GRI 201-1 GRI 202-1
CLI is committed to growing its business while supporting local markets. Through our operations and other 
business activities, we are able to generate and distribute economic value to our employees, investors, 
contractors, suppliers, and other stakeholders – ultimately contributing to the Philippine economy.
P2.612B
Year-on-year growth 
net income to parent
P451M
Salaries and benefitsP11.162B Revenues
P983.4M
Government taxes paid
P7.13B 
Payments to contractors,
suppliers, and consultants14% higher 
entry-level wage than the 
local minimum wageOur Corporate Governance Committee oversees CLI’s Sustainability Governance. The Corporate 
Sustainability Officer (CSO) leads the sustainability committee at the management level. At the board level, 
an independent director is tasked to manage the Corporate Governance Committee. As a member of board 
committees, the Committee is responsible for overseeing sustainability programs to ensure accountability 
that we achieve our sustainability performance targets. It also puts forward climate-related risks and 
opportunities that can affect our business, strategy, and financial planning.
While the President and CEO is the primary decision-maker on all matters concerning CLI’s strategy and 
operations, the Chief Operating Officer (COO) bears operational responsibility as per the CEO’s directives. 
In this regard, the COO also serves as CLI’s CSO. Additionally, the COO manages CLI’s sustainability, 
objectives, strategies, and programs.
Working directly under the Corporate Sustainability Officer is the Sustainability Manager. The Sustainability 
Manager is in charge of collaborating with all units across Cebu Landmasters in developing the 
sustainability framework, performance metrics, and programs, making sure that different departments, 
committees, and offices involved are efficiently and successfully fulfilling their tasks. 
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY
We grow the business and 
support local markets
PILLAR 2: PROFIT AND PROGRESSBEYOND
THE 
BOTTOMLINE
Beyond the Bottomline
 92 93
integrated report 2021
MITIGATING CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
Considering the economic impacts and risks posed by being stationed in one of the most disaster-prone 
countries globally, CLI is committed to increasing climate change awareness and developing appropriate 
mitigation and adaptation measures in combating climate-related risks.
We established a Risk Oversight Committee to guide the Board on high-level risk-related concerns. CLI 
acknowledges that all climate-related risks affect our financial position because the real estate industry 
is vulnerable to extreme weather conditions. Therefore, we have implemented mechanisms to overcome 
these threats.
We hired a Risk Officer to be in charge of the Risk Management Executive Committee (RMEC) to navigate the 
decision-making regarding climate-related and other associated risks. RMEC ensures that we continue to 
allocate for risk initiatives, and strategies and build action plans that mitigate climate-related risks.
CLI’s Business Continuity Management Plan is highly focused on major natural and man-made calamities that 
adversely affect its business operations.  Major considerations such as location, calamity history, manpower, 
and proximity of the internal support and local emergency response team were embedded in the plan.
HELPING LOCAL ECONOMIES FLOURISH
GRI 202-2
Cebu Landmasters recognizes the significance of our suppliers’ and contractors’ roles in providing services 
for our customers. We depend on them for our products. Hence, CLI subjects them to rigid pre-qualification 
and bidding procedures to ensure their legitimacy and performance capabilities and verify that they are at 
par with our standards in terms of code of conduct, workplace and facility requirements, human rights, and 
the environment. We choose the suppliers who can provide the best value at the highest quality to suit our 
and our customers’ needs.
CLI runs the risks of these contractors not meeting our standards, being unavailable, and failing to deliver 
on time. To mitigate these risks, we began undertaking internally-developed engineering and architectural 
designs. Moreover, we directly supervise every phase of the construction of our project. Because of the 
internal logistics and mechanisms we enforce in our procurement practices, CLI is confident that its raw 
materials or services for our operations will not experience a shortage. 
Cebu Landmasters leverages our extensive knowledge and experience of the local markets and strong 
relationship with our local contractors, and suppliers.
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES  in supplies and contract services we paid was to 
Filipino-owned businesses, 70% for suppliers from 
Visayas and Mindanao regionsof our management committee members are from 
the local community
572
CLI organic 
employees
12,217
generated jobs
47
hotel operations 
employees89
outsourced personnel 
in corporate or 
branch offices and 
showrooms82
CLI project 
management organic 
employees
9,931
workers in 
construction sites
329
outsourced
personnel in managed 
opportunities
1,165
occupants/workers 
in CLI-owned office 
buildings and retail 
space tenants
90% of PhP 7.2B
78% 
GRI 203-1 GRI 203-2
Aside from our commercial projects that develop diverse product lines such as residential units, office, and 
retail spaces, hotels, and townships for different markets, CLI also does pro-bono initiatives. We provided 
road repairs and widening, drainage repairs, and enhancement in various areas in Visayas and Mindanao. 
We also built a public market in Lahug, Cebu City, and a transport terminal in Guadalupe, Cebu City.
CLI has transformed the landscape of the localities where it establishes projects through our well-planned, 
accessible, inclusive, and resilient spaces. We help catalyze economic activities in the area by catering 
to different demands and needs of various markets, including the low-to-medium income markets and 
vulnerable sectors. CLI provides affordable housing, project innovations, and diverse business models that 
are customer-centric and community-focused.
Our preference for sourcing local talents, services, and materials generates jobs for the local community. By 
building trust and integration with the locals, we forge ties and collaborations that help us achieve our goal 
of creating a long-lasting impact on the country.VISAYASVISAYAS
MINDANAOMINDANAO
Beyond the Bottomline
 94 95
integrated report 2021
Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (“CLI” 
or the “Company”) is the leading 
real estate developer in Visayas 
and Mindanao currently located 
in 15 key cities in the region.
FINANCIAL
REVIEW
VELMIRO HEIGHTS CDO  
CDO
CASA MIRA TOWERS 
BACOLOD  
BACOLOD CITYCASA MIRA SOUTH 
PHASE 4A & PHASE 4B  
NAGA & SAN FERNANDO, CEBU
TERRANZA RESIDENCES  
ILOILOMANDTRA RESIDENCES 
TOWER 1 AND TOWER 2  
MANDAUE CITY, CEBUCASA MIRA TOWERS 
GUADALUPE TOWER 3
CEBU CITY
CASA MIRA HOMES ORMOC
ORMOC CITY
COSTA MIRA BEACHTOWN 
MACTAN
MACTAN, CEBU
Financial Review
 96 97
integrated report 2021In 2021, CLI will continue to launch projects to strengthen its 
market leadership in Visayas and Mindanao. During the year, it 
has unveiled more of its garden series and premier masters as 
the economy gradually reopens. Ten projects were successfully 
launched and substantially sold out driving up the company’s 
reservations sales namely:Cebu Landmasters recorded reservation sales of 
P16.5 billion for 2021, 16% more than 2020’s PhP 
14.25 billion due to sustained demand for housing 
in its key markets by launching 3,865 units in 10 
projects worth PhP 18 billion, more than the eight 
projects launched in 2020 worth PhP 11.5 billion.
Cebu Landmasters launched Masters Tower Cebu 
on 19 February 2021, with a target completion date 
of 2025. This was designed by SOM, an innovative 
and esteemed architectural firm. The project will 
include prime office and retail space as well as 
the Queen City of the South’s first five-star luxury 
hotel. The Sofitel Cebu City will be managed by 
Accor, a global hotel company with headquarters 
in France. The construction, which is expected 
to cost PhP 4 billion, would be built by EEI 
Corporation on a 2,840 sq.m plot in Cebu Business 
Park, the city’s preeminent central business area.
In March 2021, Cebu Landmasters signed a new 
PhP 360 million joint venture focused on filling 
a rapidly rising demand for co-living spaces that 
deliver affordable, safe transient housing in Cebu 
for young professionals and students seeking 
quick access to strategic business centers. Named 
Sugbo Prime Estate Inc., the partnership kicked 
off with a 7,500 sq.m prime property along Banilad 
Road that is a walking distance to the Cebu IT Park 
where many Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) 
firms are located. With renewed BPO interest in 
Cebu, areas like Banilad surrounding the BPO 
hubs have become highly in-demand. The mixed-
use development will have retail spaces, over 300 
dormitory rooms, and a self-storage facility. The 
project is to be completed by 2023 and primarily targets young professionals and students 
returning to work and schools, respectively.
In April 2021, CLI broke ground on Patria de 
Cebu, a new mixed-use development offering 
21,000 sq.m of gross floor area and a 182-room 
Mercure Cebu Downtown at the heart of downtown 
Cebu City’s heritage trail. Patria de Cebu’s 
redevelopment will offer 4,320 sq.m of food, dining 
and entertainment spaces and 4,400 sq.m of office 
space. The balance will be taken up by Mercure 
Cebu Downtown set to open in 2024 to be operated 
by French multinational chain Accor, a world 
leading hospitality group. 
CLI’s collaboration with the Archdiocese of Cebu 
covers the development and operation of the 
mixed-use project for 40 years.
In May 2021, CLI continued its partnership with BPI 
Investment Management, Inc.’s (“BIMI”) managed 
money market funds by entering into another notes 
facility agreement worth PhP 3 Billion. The facility 
was arranged by BPI Capital Corporation (“BPI 
Capital”), that also initiated the initial PhP 2 billion 
facility issued last October 2019.
CLI received PRA approval in June 2021 to reclaim 
and develop the 100-hectare Minglanilla Techno 
Business Park in Minglanilla, Cebu. Following that, 
CLI increased its share from 20% to 80% in order 
to streamline the Company’s operations as the 
development’s developer and project manager. 
During the year, PRA issued a Notice to Proceed 
for the reclamation. In October 2021, CLI broke 
ground to begin its development.In July 2021, CLI revealed its very first resort 
development – the PhP 2.5 billion Abaca 
Resort Mactan.
The 125-room all-suite accommodation will feature 
stunning panoramic ocean views and will rise 
17-stories high on a 4,500 sqm. property formerly 
occupied by the multi-awarded Abaca Boutique 
Resort in Punta Engaño, Lapu-Lapu City, a tourism 
growth center. CLI purchased the property in 
2019 and has signed up with The Abaca Group to 
continue operating the hotel and providing luxury 
experiences tailored for local and global tourists 
when it reopens. To design the resort, CLI tapped 
internationally renowned architectural firm Büro 
Ole Scheeren whose projects have won numerous 
global awards.
On July 14, 2021 the Company distributed 
1,909,451,997 new common shares as stock 
dividends, or 123 new shares for every 100 
existing shares. This resulted in an increase in 
outstanding common shares to 3,461,851,997.
In August 2021, CLI signed a Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOA) to acquire 14.3 hectares of 
Xavier University (XU) - Ateneo de Cagayan’s 
Manresa Property in uptown Cagayan de Oro. 
CLI’s acquisition, named Manresa Town, will be 
developed with condominiums, dormitories, retail 
and commercial spaces that will be an integral 
part to the masterplanned township of Xavier 
University Cagayan de Oro. Proceeds that XU 
will be receiving will be used to develop the new 
XU Masterson Campus, which at 21 hectares will 
be three times larger in area than the current 
campus. Provisions in the agreement prepared 
by Xavier University and endorsed by Jesuit 
leaderships in the Philippines and in Rome were 
approved by the Vatican after a thorough two-year 
review process. The new 21-hectare XU Masterson 
Campus, is envisioned to catalyze development 
in Northern Mindanao with a Sustainable and 
New Normal-ready Campus Masterplan. The 
masterplan of the XU Masterson Campus will 
blend seamlessly with the adjacent Manresa 
Town to be developed by Cebu Landmasters, 
a 14.3-hectare mixed-use university town that 
provides XU students convenient and safe 
residential options, easy access to commercial 
establishments and future-ready offices.
In December 2021, CLI and Borromeo Brothers 
Estate Inc. inaugurated the PhP 1.2-billion 5-Star 
BERDE-certified green commercial tower Latitude 
Corporate Center, increasing CLI’s office GLA to 
29,000 sq.m from 14,000 sq.m year-on-year. The 
hybrid office building standing 24-storeys high with designated spaces for BPO offices (8th-12th floors), 
Enterprise offices (14th-16th floors), Executive 
offices (17th-24th floors) and a retail concept (first 
and second floors) is strategically located in Cebu 
Business Park and is among the tallest buildings 
in the business district. The development was 
awarded this year with a five-star accreditation 
under the Building for Ecologically Responsive 
Design Excellence (BERDE) rating system, a 
testament to its sustainable design tailor fit to 
world class standards.
During the 9th PropertyGuru Philippines Property 
awards, Cebu Landmasters was awarded as 
the Best Developer in Visayas and in Mindanao 
along with 9 other accolades from its portfolio of 
innovative, and market-resonant projects spread 
across the Visayas and Mindanao region, such 
as Casa Mira Towers Mandaue, Davao Global 
Township (DGT), MesaVirre Garden Residences, 
One Paragon Place, Patria de Cebu, Radisson Red 
Cebu Mandaue, and Velmiro Uptown CDO.
With the Company’s stellar performance and 
proven execution capability to adapt to the new 
normal translating to a resumption of pre-
pandemic growth and income levels, the Board 
deemed it fit to declare a regular and special cash 
dividend of PhP 0.112 and PhP 0.038 per share 
on March 15, 2022 with a total estimated amount 
PhP 519.2 million, a 33.6% increase from the PhP 
388.75 million paid to stockholders last year. The 
recently declared dividends have a record date of 
22 April 2022 and will be paid on 17 May 2022.
Cebu Landmasters recorded Net income to parent 
shareholders of PhP 2.61 billion, an increase 
of 42% from PhP 1.846 billion in 2020. This 
generated an Earnings per share of PhP 0.75, a 
growth of 47% YOY from PhP 0.51 EPS in 2020. 
The significant increase is driven by the strong 
topline growth and one-time tax adjustment 
amounting to PhP 282 million brought about by 
the implementation of CREATE law.
CLI’s topline grew by 35% to PhP 11.16 billion 
from 2020’s PhP 8.3 billion driven by significant 
construction accomplishments coupled by 
robust sales and collections, which have further 
resulted in a PhP 25 billion or 23% increase in 
unrecognized revenue for future recognition.
Financial Review
 98 99
integrated report 2021Revenue from the sale of real estate recorded a 
35% growth y-o-y to PhP 10.996 billion from PhP 
8.15 billion in 2020. The high growth was driven 
by significant construction progress and more 
accounts qualifying for revenue recognition from 
continued collections. By the end of the year, con-
struction was in full-swing across all project sites 
in 16 key cities in VisMin with catch-up measures 
in place to compensate for delays caused by quar-
antine restrictions.
Casa Mira accounted for 44% of revenues, followed 
by the Garden series with 30% and Premier Mas-
ters with 24%. The mix of revenue recorded during 
the year was brought about by the strong Casa 
Mira sales during the height of the pandemic in 
2020. In terms of location, CLI’s operations in Cebu 
remain outstanding, representing 55% of the total 
revenues, followed by CDO with 11% with Davao 
and Iloilo both contributing 10%.
Premier Masters (premier market), at PhP 2.6 
billion, increased by 17% y-o-y from PhP 2.2 
billion driven by the new revenue qualifications 
and accomplishments from Terranza Residences 
in Iloilo City.
Garden Series (mid-market), at PhP 3.2 billion, 
higher by 7% y-o-y from PhP 3 billion, driven by 
Mandtra Residences, Velmiro Plains Bacolod and 
Velmiro Heights CDO.Launched on 14 September 2019, Citadines Cebu 
City posted PhP 54.56 million for the period ending 
31 December 2020 with hotel revenues driven 
from BPO companies that housed their employ-
ees during the lockdown. The pandemic severely 
affected the tourism and hospitality sector and 
caused declines for most, if not all, hotels, retail -
ers, and other businesses. Despite the pandemic, 
the Company remains preferred due to its unique 
service apartment and strategic location.
We made continued rentals possible for essential 
establishments such as supermarkets even amid 
the pandemic. The Company offered rental con-
cessions and holidays to support local businesses 
during lockdown decreasing its rental revenue 
by 13% y-o-y to PhP 55.24 million from PhP 63.16 
million. GLA increases by 2% y-o-y to 14,536 
sq.m from 14,296 sq.m with the completion of 
retail spaces in residential projects. Despite this, 
the Company is not immune to these economic 
downturns and still experienced declines. As of 31 
December 2020, rental occupancy rate is at 79%, a 
minor decline from 82% as of 31 December 2019.Casa Mira (economic market), at PhP 5.16 billion, 
grew by 93% y-o-y from PhP 2.67 billion, mainly 
from newly launched projects during the year: 
Casa Mira LPU Davao in Davao City and Casa Mira 
Iloilo in Iloilo City.
In Q4 2021, the company recorded a total consol-
idated revenue of PhP 3.5 billion, a 35% increase 
versus the PhP 2.6 billion in Q42020 and is 39% 
higher q-o-q from the PhP 2.5 billion that was 
reported on Q3 2021. The strong performance 
during the fourth quarter was driven by the in-
crease in real estate revenue due as construction 
is now in full swing in the various development 
sites of the company.
REAL ESTATE SALESHOTEL OPERATIONS
LEASING
Financial Review
 100 101
integrated report 2021Property management became even more essen-
tial given the persistence of COVID-19. The Com-
pany’s PM is critical in ensuring that tenants and 
clients are able to safely occupy CLI’s properties. 
Revenue from property management fees is at 
PhP 42.59 million, a 16% y-o-y increase from PhP 
36.84 million mainly from continuous turn-over of 
completed projects during the year – Casa Mira 
South Phase 1 and 2, MesaVerte Residences, and 
Mivesa Garden Residences Phase 3.
The Company’s cost of sales for the period ended 
31 December 2021 amounted to PhP 5.97 billion, 
an increase of 39% from PhP 4.28 billion in line 
with the increase in revenue. 
Total operating expenses during the year amount-
ed to PhP 1.95 billion, a 54% y-o-y increase from 
PhP 1.27 billion mainly due to the increase in 
accounted commissions and incentives to PhP 725 
million caused by the implementation of PFRS 15, 
which required the accrual of the said commis-
sions and incentives.  Salaries and employee ben-
efits also grew by 22% to PhP 431.93 million which 
aligns with the increase in the Group’s manpower 
to 691 employees from 574 employees to support 
CLI’s expansions across VisMin. During the year, 
the company also spent PhP 100 million in costs 
attributable to the purchase of the 14.3 hectares 
that will be integrated into the Xavier University 
Masterson Campus. 
During the year, borrowing costs amounted to PhP 
571.47 million with a lower average borrowing 
rate of 4.75%, an improvement from the cost of 
borrowing reported in 2020 of 4.96%. The borrow-
ing cost represents the interest on bank loans and 
corporate notes to fund the Company’s project 
developments that are recognized as period costs 
and expenses. 
FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTS
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
COST AND EXPENSES
Financial Highlights
 102 103
integrated report 2021Consolidated Revenues 11,162,170,684   8,298,820,318   8,499,047,935 
Consolidated Net Income 2,670,871,617   2,075,727,320   2,437,937,511 
Net Income attributable to 
parent2,612,937,324   1,846,119,732   2,012,289,618 
Current Assets 37,002,075,676   27,600,305,172   22,932,778,506 
Non-Current Assets 29,650,029,757   22,490,196,271   15,350,663,731 
Total Assets 66,652,105,433   50,090,501,443   38,283,442,237 
Interest bearing debt 32021719390   23,793,983,711   16,846,756,577 
Other liabilities 16,698,204,519   10,769,276,273   7,688,427,371 
Total Liabilities 48,719,923,909   34,563,259,984   24,535,183,948 
Total Equity- Parent 10,839,874,203   8,631,601,760   7,692,228,382 
Total Equity 17,932,181,524   15,527,241,457   13,748,258,287 
NCF used in 
Operations activities-920,937,461 - 3,703,869,374 - 3,068,007,070 
NCF used in 
Investing activities-5,229,695,398 - 1,783,319,584 - 2,265,219,358 
NCF from financing 
activities6,449,269,985   5,367,203,097   5,301,235,148 FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL
POSITION
CASH
POSITION2021
2021
20212020
2020
20202019
2019
2019 RETURNS PROFITABILITY
GROSS PROFIT MARGIN CONSO NIAT MARGIN EBITDA MARGIN46%
2021 2021 2021 2020 2020 2020 2019 2019 201934%40.44% 40.28%
24%25.01%28.68%48.40%49.40%
2021 2021 2020 2020 2019 2019
RETURN ON AVE 
ASSETS-CONSORETURN ON AVE
EQUITY-PARENT5.00% 4.70%7.65%28.00%
22.62%29.30%
Financial Highlights
 104 105
integrated report 2021 STABILITY
 LIQUIDITYEPS 0.75 0.51 0.54
BV per share 3.13 2.39 2.09
Price** 3 2.26 2.17
Price to Earnings 4.000 4.431 4.019
Price to BV   0.96   0.95   1.04 
Dividends declared:
   Cash dividends0.15 
(0.33 adjusted 
pre-stock 
divideds)  0.25   0.25
   Stock dividends 123%2021 2020 2019
* adjusted after stock dividends
**close as of last day of trading during the year
LANDBANK (IN SQ.M)   1,031,424   908,959   1,239,430 
Reservations Sales take-
up  16,525,206,979   14,247,928,010   12,676,980,539 
GROSS LEASABLE AREA 29,133 14,536 14,296
HOTEL ROOMS 180 180 1002021 2020 20192021
20212021 2020
20202020 2019
20192019
NET DEBT/EQUITY DEBT/EQUITY
CURRENT RATIO1.72X
 1.48X
 1.16X
 1.67X2.41X2.56X1.78X
 1.53X
 1.23X
VALUATION
OPERATIONAL 
HIGHLIGHTS
Financial Highlights
 106 107
integrated report 2021Natural capital is crucial 
to our operations, we are 
committed to ensuring that 
we can sustainability create 
value through our use of 
materials, land, water, and 
energy resources. The Planet 
pillar shows our dedication to 
environmental stewardship, 
focusing on conserving 
resources, managing 
environmental impacts, and 
protecting ecosystems.
Our 2021 material topics 
show resource management 
and environmental impact 
management as the major 
themes. We have bolstered 
these initiatives in prioritizing 
proper baseline data-gathering 
and monitoring. By measuring 
key environmental indicators, 
we can make informed decisions 
and track our progress in our 
sustainability journey. We recognize our dependence on natural resources to operate, and 
the environmental impacts that result from business activities. 
Our ability to build infrastructures that benefit customers relies on 
being able to access materials, water, and energy in the long term. 
Considering this, we aim to balance business productivity with 
resource conservation. 
We developed a monitoring system to establish baseline data on our 
energy, water, and materials used. This system involves different 
departments for different sites. Our Human Resources and Admin 
Departments monitor water and energy use in corporate offices, 
showrooms, and staff houses. The Property Management Department 
tracks resource use in managed properties, while the Engineering 
Department monitors usage in projects under construction in 
coordination with contractors. The Engineering Department 
also tracks contractor-supplied materials and the Supply Chain 
Management Department takes note of owner-supplied materials.
 
Monitoring provides data that empowers us to make informed 
decisions on resource management. We have begun introducing 
conservation measures and cascading them to areas with significantly 
higher consumption. The baseline data on energy, water, and 
materials will be further analyzed and used to set reduction targets.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
We conserve resources and 
manage environmental impacts
PILLAR 3: PLANETBEYOND 
MEASUREUSING RESOURCES 
RESPONSIBLY
Beyond Measure
 108 109
integrated report 2021GRI 301
ENERGY
Construction sites
Corporate Offices
Managed properties
Managed Properties (common areas)Managed Properties (leased areas)
Shuttle service and company vehicles
Business trips0 25% 50% 75% 100%DIRECT 
ENERGY
INDIRECT 
ENERGY
110 111
integrated report 2021We are cognizant of our environmental impacts, and make an effort to minimize and mitigate them. 
Our business requires a significant volume of non-renewable construction materials to develop quality 
residential, office, retail, hotels, mixed-use and township projects. These materials comprise sand, gravel, 
cement, rebars, and glass – all of which have considerable impacts. For instance, mining raw materials 
to produce glass, steel, and cement impacts land, water and air quality, and biodiversity. It is especially 
important to conserve mineral resources, given the particularly limited limestone deposits in the country. 
We implemented processes and systems to monitor our material use, and coordinated with contractors to 
execute them. In doing so, we can explore ways to improve materials efficiency, continuously improve our 
project execution, and introduce best construction practices, without compromising quality and durability. 
For instance, we can potentially reduce costs on materials that make up the largest portion of our project 
spending such as steel and cement. 
Managing our impacts also helps us remain resilient to external risks that can affect project execution and 
delivery. The scarcity of materials is a major threat, such that it influences the cost of materials and affects our 
industry competitiveness. For instance, scarcity may be a concern in times of disaster and natural calamities 
when demand for materials increases dramatically or when suppliers experience manpower shortage. Global 
issues can also trigger local price fluctuations, especially for heavily imported resources such as fuel.   
We aim to continue monitoring and managing our use of construction materials, and consider other ways to 
be more efficient in using them such as exploring renewable or alternative materials. Our business depends on energy use across all our sites and throughout our value chain. We use energy for 
our corporate and satellite offices, commercial operations, and construction projects. 
Both fuel and electricity are used in our operations. We purchase gasoline and diesel to operate power 
generator sets during power interruptions or in construction sites without power lines, and to use vehicles 
at construction sites and for other business trips. The Visayan Electric Company (VECO) in Cebu, Davao 
Light and Power Company and other power utility companies in the VisMin area supply electricity to our 
offices, project sites, and properties. 
We consumed 90,409.47 GJ of energy in 2021, with 54% of it from direct energy (gasoline and diesel) and 
the remaining 46% from indirect energy or power. This amounts to  259,580.52 liters of fuel and 9,030,112.28 
kWh of electricity. 
Considering areas where we operate, constructions sites consume the most energy at 51,583.19GJ or 
(57.06%), followed by our managed properties at 35,485.95 GJ (39.25%), then corporate offices and vehicles 
at 3,347.03 GJ (3.70%).MATERIALS
SOURCE SAND (CU.M) GRAVEL (CU.M) CEMENT (CU.M) REBARS (KG) GLASS (SQ.M)
Contractor 
Supplied
Total Owner-
Supplied 54,210,173.00
54,210,173.00038,913,266.00
38,913,266.0005,691,158.47
101,892,978.4796,201,820.0062,378,652.15
72,831,933.7010,453,281.5538,450.00
38,450.000GRI 302ENERGY
Our management approach is mainly to monitor energy consumption and implement management 
measures accordingly. CLI Property Management (PM) consistently monitors energy use and implements 
conservation practices, and is developing a standardized system to track usage in managed residential and 
commercial properties. Our current energy management practices include: 
c) Complying with green building design policies and standards, and extending this to advocacy to 
tenants, locators, and industry partnersa) Carefully selecting efficient mechanical AHU (air handling unit) systems and brands 
b) Encouraging policy-driven use and installation of HVR (high-voltage resistor) devices to minimize 
operational costs
Beyond Measure112 113
integrated report 2021ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN CORPORATE & SATELLITE OFFICES AND SHOWROOMS
In 2021, CLI had a total energy consumption of 3,347.03 GJ in the corporate and satellite offices and 
showrooms. This is a 39.80% increase from the previous year, mainly due to our expansions and added 
offices and showrooms throughout the VisMin region. GRI 302-1
DIRECT ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION 
(GASOLINE
AND FUEL)2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021IN GJ** IN LITERS*
1,775.08
26,841.72
28,616.806,325.17
37,092.63
43,417.796,234.54
43,457.78
49,692.3359.51
899.89
959.40212.06
1,243.56
1,455.61209.02
1,456.95
1,665.97Fuel used for 
employee shuttle 
service and company-
owned vehicles
Fuel used for other 
vehicles used for 
official business trips
Subtotal INDIRECT
ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION 
(GASOLINE
AND FUEL)2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021IN GJ IN KWH
269,439.30
(2 offices)260,724.50
(4 offices)466,974.99
(7 offices*)969.95
1,929.35938.58
2,394.191,681.06
3,347.03Electricity for 
operations
Total Energy Consumption
*Estimated using Cebu City’s average common retail pump prices by yearend 2019 to 2021 per liter of fuel. Retrieved from the 
Department of Energy (https://www.doe.gov.ph/retail-pump-prices-visayas)
**Converted using US Energy Information Administration tool (https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/units-and-calculators/energy-
conversion-calculators.php)
We keep track of risks that we may encounter so we can adequately prepare for them. Based on our review, we 
see our current dependence on traditional electricity sources as a concern with regards to energy consumption.
Coal, a non-renewable resource, remains to be the major source of electricity for the entire country. The 
lack of coal supply in the future poses a risk to our operations, particularly in Cebu and Davao where the 
major power distribution facilities are located such as Visayan Electric Company (VECO) and Davao Light 
and Power Company (DLPC). Although there are renewable energy sources supplying the Cebu, Negros, 
Panay (CNP) grid, these are prone to natural hazards such as earthquakes and can trigger major power 
supply disruptions.
Additionally, the increasing population in urban areas and the lack of committed installation of new power 
sources can also result in energy shortages in the Visayas and Mindanao regions.
Cebu offices 
Davao Main – Paragon
Davao Main – MesaTierra
38P Showroom
Ormoc Satellite Office
Bohol Sales Office
321,683.50 kWh5,026.00 kWh4,761.00 kWh
9,394.98 kWh
59,406.00 kWh
33,658.91 kWh
33,044.60 kWh 69%69%INDIRECT ENERGY 
USE IN CORPORATE/
SATELLITE OFFICES 
AND SHOWROOMS7%7%7%7%13%13%2%2%
1%1%
1%1%Dumaguete Satellite OfficeWe consumed 1,665.97 GJ or 49,692.33 liters of diesel and gasoline to fuel vehicles. Compared to 2020, we utilized 
17.2% fuel because more official business trips were made as a result of easing pandemic restrictions. In contrast, 
we reduced fuel consumption by 1.4% in operating employee shuttle service and company-owned vehicles.
 
In total, our electricity consumption was at 466,974.99 kWh or 1,681.06 GJ. This was estimated using the 
annualized figures for seven offices, including then converted to GJ for ease of comparison. Our computations 
show the electricity consumption in the following sites: 
Cebu offices account for a majority of power consumption since the majority of our workforce holds office 
in the corporate headquarters and satellite offices  in Cebu. We have yet to set a baseline data for offices 
in Iloilo, CDO, Bacolod, and Bohol and appoint data sources on who will track and monitor our resource 
consumptions in these respective areas. 
Beyond Measure114 115
integrated report 2021ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN MANAGED PROPERTIES AND CONSTRUCTION SITES
GRI 302-1, 302-2
We gathered baseline data for energy consumed in our managed properties and construction sites, 
which showed that these areas require the most energy. Given this information, implementing resource 
management measures in these areas will be critical in curbing our energy consumption. In the future, 
we aim to keep monitoring our sites and properties to better strategize how we can manage our fuel and 
electricity consumption. 
Construction is the most energy-intensive part of our value chain, accounting for 51,583.19 GJ of direct and 
indirect energy used. Our construction sites also require the most volume of fuel, since 1,285,926.00 liters of 
gasoline and diesel were used to power generator sets – 91.42% of our total fuel consumption.
On the other hand, most of our electricity consumption comes from our managed properties. 
Combined, the common and leased areas of our managed properties make up 74.98% of our total electricity 
consumed. Our leased areas utilized 6,244,273.50 kWh or 22,406.76 GJ while the common areas used 
2,509,964.38 kWh or 9,035.62 GJ in 2021. 
ACTIVITY
SOURCEFUEL FOR 
GENERATOR
SETS 
(LITERS)FUEL FOR 
GENERATOR
SETS 
(GJ)LEASED
AREAS
(KWH)COMMON/ 
CONSTRUCTED
AREAS
(KWH)LEASED
AREAS
(GJ)COMMON
AREAS
(GJ)INDIRECT ENERGY DIRECT ENERGY 
120,611.20
(19/20 - 95%)
1,285,926.0
(26/35 - 74%
1,406,537.204,043.57
43,111.54
47,155.1196,244,273.50
(10*/20 - 50%)
Not applicable
6,244,273.502,509,964.38
(18**/20 - 90%)
2,353,301.00
(25/35 - 71%)
4,863,265.3822,406.76
Not applicable
22,406.769,035.62
8,471.65
17,507.27Managed Properties 
(# of properties
with data)
Construction Sites 
(# of projects
with data)
Total
*Estimated consumption of 1 property based on annualized figures
**Estimated consumption of 4 properties based on annualized figuresGRI 303WATER AND EFFLUENTS 
Like energy, water is vital across all our commercial operations like construction sites, office, and retail and 
hotel facilities. It is important for us to ensure that this resource is available for all stakeholders even in the 
years to come.  
We source water mainly from Metropolitan Cebu Water District (MCWD), our third-party utility provider. 
This is supplemented by groundwater mostly in horizontal projects. We  utilize 100% of the water withdrawn 
and, from this, 80% of the water is treated. For each property, around 45-60 cu.m is also stored in fire 
reserve tanks for emergencies. 
Our water consumption and withdrawal was 1,173,247.58 cu.m, with 60.34% of this sourced from MCWD 
and the remaining 39.66% from groundwater. Our managed properties (common and leased areas) require 
the most water at 722,372.10 cu.m or 62% of total water withdrawn and consumed. This is followed by 
construction sites which required 446,034.80 cu.m (38%) of water. 
This year’s data also serves as the baseline for future data monitoring, and shows that implementing water-
saving practices in these areas can help us improve our water resource management. 
While most of the data was captured, CLI was not able to gather baseline data on all 
properties, construction sites, and offices
*Includes annualized data for 1 managed property
**Data from horizontal properties 707,966.63 (60.34%)
465,298.95 (39.66%)
Total: 1,173,265.58 (100%)Third-party water providerThird-party water provider
Groundwater** 159.602.10
97,471.05
446,034.80
4,858.68Managed Properties -
Leased areas* 
(11/11 - 100%)
Managed Properties -
Common areas
(11/11 - 100%)
Construction Sites
(26/35 - 74%)
Corporate Offices -
Common areas
(Cebu offices only)
Beyond MeasureSOURCEGROUND
WATER*
(CU.M) LEASED AREAS COMMON AREAS SUB-TOTAL MCWD / THIRD PARTY WATER PROVIDER** (CU.M)
159,602.10
(11/11 - 100%)
Not applicable
159,602.10465,298.95
(8/9 - 89%)
Not applicable
355,161.00Managed Properties 
(# of properties with data)
Construction Sites 
(# of projects with data)
Total97,471.05
(11/11 -100%)
446,034.80
(26/35 - 74%)
543,505.85257,073.15
446,034.80.80
703,107.95
116 117
integrated report 20211 US EPA, “Ground Water,” Ground Water | US EPA, September 29, 2021, https://www.epa.gov/report-environment/ground-water.As mentioned previously, we focused on setting a baseline data this year. Aside from this, we implemented 
water-saving initiatives through our property management arm and contractors. These measures include 
installing water-saving fixtures in restrooms and educating employees and customers about the importance 
of water conservation and efforts to reduce excessive water consumption.
 
We take measures to increase water efficiency to prevent risks regarding the availability of clean water. 
It is well-known that groundwater may be a scarce resource depending on the area, and can be sensitive 
to changes in rainfall patterns, extraction, and paved surfaces that can prevent water from recharging 
groundwater1. If left unchecked, depending on groundwater can contribute to aquifer depletion that impacts 
the environment in different ways such as creating a water shortage, land subsidence, and contaminations 
such as saltwater intrusion. Increasing populations may also exert further pressure on this resource.  
 
We are at the beginning of our journey to resource efficiency and, as such, there are many opportunities for 
us to grow. CLI aims to improve water resource management and efficiency by implementing water-saving 
measures and using available technology to explore alternative sources of water. For instance, we plan to 
install rainwater harvesting facilities and develop water percolation ponds or other catchment areas.
WATER WITHDRAWAL AND CONSUMPTION IN CORPORATE & SATELLITE OFFICES AND SHOWROOMS 
Our data suggests that we use the least amount of water in our offices and showrooms with a total of 
4,840.68 cu.m consumed, sourced from our third-party supplier. For this, only our offices in Cebu were 
monitored as we are still setting up utilities data management to include areas outside of Cebu.
 
Our water consumption and withdrawal increased by 59.16% from last year since we were able to return to 
a limited office setup as quarantine restrictions loosened and generally increase in operations. It is of note 
that compared to pre-pandemic conditions, this uptick was substantially less at 31.95%. GRI 303-3, 303-5
 3,668.67
3,041.434,840.68Corporate / Satellite Offices & Showrooms
(Cebu offices only)
5000
2019 2020 20214000
3000WATER WITHDRAWAL AND CONSUMPTION IN MANAGED PROPERTIES AND CONSTRUCTION SITES
Our managed properties consume 722,372.12 cu.m in total, which includes the leased areas and common 
areas. Around 64% of this is sourced from groundwater and is used in the common areas of several 
managed properties to supplement the water from our third-party provider. On the other hand, our 
construction sites used 446,034.80 cu.m in 2021. GRI 303-3, 303-5
*Applicable only to horizontal properties/residential subdivisions, except Velmiro Heights. Water consumption of 1 property is 
estimated based on annualized figures.
**Applicable only to mixed use, office buildings, or all vertical properties/condominiums, including Velmiro Heights which uses an 
estimate based on annualized figures.
Beyond Measure118 119
integrated report 2021DESCRIPTION 2021
Wastewater treated* and discharged (10/10 or 
100% of vertical projects)
Wastewater treated using basic sewage treatment 
through biological decomposition and drainage 
(10/ 10 or 100% horizontal properties) 157,938.31
384,496.00
*Applicable only to mixed use, office buildings, and vertical properties/condominiumsGRI 302-3RESOURCE INTENSITY 
Apart from measuring energy consumption, energy intensity aids us in assessing how energy intensive 
our properties and sites are. We recorded the energy intensity or the energy consumption per square 
meter of space for residential and commercial spaces primarily on the common areas.  For projects under 
construction, energy intensity is computed based on constructed floor area.  
The common areas of our managed properties have an average indirect energy intensity of 33.18 kwh/sqm 
and an average direct energy intensity of 0.46 liters/sqm of space.
RESOURCE INTENSITIES
SCOPE AND
BREAKDOWNINDIRECT
ENERGY
INTENSITYDIRECT
ENERGY
INTENSITYWATER
INTENSITY
CU. M./SQ.M.
LITERS/SQ.M. KWH/SQ.M.
Average Intensity:
Mixed Use/Estate/Township
Base Line Center
Average Intensity:
Office Buildings with G/F Retail
Park Centrale
Latitude Corporate Center
Average Intensity:
Residential (High rise/Condo)
Asia Premier Residences
Base Line Residences
Midori Residences
Mivesa Garden Residences
Casa Mira Towers - Labangon
MesaVerte Residences
MesaTierra Garden Residences
Overall Average21.13
21.13
55.23
98.22
12.23
23.17
5.60
38.61
27.08
31.32
39.45
15.68
4.45
33.180.35
0.35
0.74
1.03
0.44
0.30
0.95
0.04
0.35
0.46
0.21
0.06
0.01
0.460.40
0.40
0.59
0.92
0.27
0.64
0.69
0.65
0.56
1.42
0.67
0.42
0.10
0.55GRI 303-4EFFLUENTS 
We incorporate a wastewater treatment system in the facilities of our residential and commercial 
properties, offices, hotels and project sites to minimize the effluents discharged. On the average, we have 
been able to treat 80% of water consumed, while the remaining 20% was used for irrigation. 
CLI has been examining ways to safely discharge and recycle wastewater since this prevents potential 
environmental and health risks such as the pollution of nearby water bodies. We have been exploring 
setting up a built-in dual piping system for potable and non-potable water in our vertical projects to prevent 
contamination. 
 
In managing our domestic wastewater, we ensure that greywater and blackwater are treated separately. 
This allows us to recycle greywater for flushing or irrigation. 
 
As for blackwater, this goes into a septic tank for a basic sewage treatment through biological 
decomposition and drainage. We treated and discharged a total of 542,434.31 cu.m of wastewater in all our 
managed properties. 
Beyond Measure120 121
integrated report 2021GRI 306
GRI 305MANAGING WASTE
MEASURING GHG EMISSIONSIt is vital for us to manage the solid waste we generated since this can significantly impact different aspects 
of the environment and communities that will be potentially exposed to them. For instance, improper 
disposal by the hauler to landfills can contaminate the land and water and contribute to GHG emissions. 
Due to the nature of our business, generating solid waste may be unavoidable. Considering this, we have 
opted to create mechanisms that would help ensure the proper handling of waste. However, CLI has limited 
control over this given that solid waste is ultimately handled by private waste haulers. 
We focused on managing waste on-site and carefully assessing and choosing our waste collectors. For 
hazardous waste, the company has designated areas for these and they are collected and disposed of by 
DENR-accredited haulers. For other types of waste, CLI ensures that the chosen haulers are accredited 
garbage collectors that operate and meet the standards of DENR in the collection, management and 
disposal of wastes. For construction projects, CLI’s contractors handle waste management.  
In 2021, CLI generated a total of 39,370,199.60 kg of solid waste and recycled or reused 30,122,000.00 kg. 
Most of this solid waste comes from the 28 construction sites we were able to monitor, which amounted to 
38,454,600 kg of waste. All recycled materials were recorded from 13 out of the 35 construction sites and 
results in 78% of all construction waste recycled. There is certainly more room for CLI to improve on data gathering and following practices that adhere to a 
circular economy approach. 
We are aware that, while made with commendable effort, there is still a need to create a waste management 
and auditing system for all properties. We aim to conduct a regular and detailed waste audit – helping 
us identify the amount of recyclable, biodegradable, non-biodegradable and residual waste we generate. 
Further segregation of specific type of waste such as plastics may be prioritized to divert these from 
the landfill. To contribute to this, we have been allocating resources to enhance the Materials Recovery 
Facilities in our properties. This can be expanded to include a composting facility for green and other 
biodegradable waste, particularly for horizontal projects. 
In the future, CLI’s Property Management and Engineering will require third-party haulers to provide 
regular reports on the total waste collected and diverted from landfill.
The amount of direct and indirect energy needed for our operations is reflected in our  carbon footprint. 
Activities in project planning, development, operations and management contribute substantially to our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Specifically, our emissions come from energy use in our corporate offices, 
commercial operations (office, retail and hotel) and construction projects. 
 
We recorded a total of 3,885.78 MTCO2e emitted from our business activities. Most of this comes from Scope 1 
or direct GHG emissions at 3,877.46  MTCO2e or  99.79% of the total, which is consistent with our observations 
from our energy consumption. Scope 2 or indirect emissions accounted for 0.10% (3.87 MTCO2e) of our total 
emissions, while Scope 3 or other indirect GHG emissions accounted for 0.11% (4.45 MTCO2e).TOTAL WASTE GENERATED IN 2021
GRI 306-3, 306-4
Construction Sites 
(# of projects with data)Construction Sites 
(# of projects with data)
- Recycled WasteConstruction Sites
(owner-supplied 
materials) **MANAGED 
PROPERTIES*
CONSTRUCTION 
SITES 
*Recycled waste not monitored
**All waste generated is recycled
Beyond Measure122 123
integrated report 2021GHG SCOPE MTCO2E % OF SCOPE ACTIVITY SOURCE
Scope 1 / 
Direct GHG 
Emissions
Scope 2 / 
Indirect GHG 
Emissions
Scope 3 / Other 
Indirect GHG 
Emissions
Total GHG EmissionsUse of fuel for employee shuttle 
service and company-owned vehicles
Use of fuel for other vehicles used for 
official business trips
Use of fuel for generator sets
 Managed properties
 Construction sites
Sub-total
Power consumption
 Corporate Offices
 Managed Properties –   
 Common areas
 Construction Sites 
Sub-total
Power consumption
 Leased Spaces:
 Office and Retail Spaces 14.16
98.72
322.81
3,441.77
3,877.46
0.34
1.81
1.72
3.87
4.45
3,885.780.38%
255%
8.337%
88.76%
100%
8.55%
46.89%
44.56%
100%As we continue to expand our operations, we expect our carbon emissions will increase. This contributes 
to global temperature increase and to the exacerbation of the climate crisis. We find it especially important 
to work towards the goal of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5oC, given that the country is 
among those who are most vulnerable to climate change such as extreme weather events and rainfall, sea 
level rise, rising temperatures, and others2. We also face the risk of high carbon products being regulated 
considering the urgency on the global carbon budget, which was reported to be 400 billion tonnes CO2 in the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report (IPCC AR6) of 2021.TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS
GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3
2 USAID, “Climate Change Risk Profile,” Climate Risk Profile: Philippines | Global Climate Change, February 8, 2017, https://www.
climatelinks.org/resources/climate-risk-profile-philippines CLI’s main strategy for reducing GHG emissions is by incorporating energy efficient designs in our 
developments. Our office, hotel, residential, and retail properties have LED technology specifications that 
reduce energy consumption. With proper maintenance, LED lighting can have longer operating life.  The 
extended operating life of LED bulbs means that buildings can increase the usable space throughout their 
building design.  With LED lights having a longer life cycle than other light sources, buildings will have less 
need for light fixtures maintenance. 
 
While new projects use 100% LED, CLI’s older projects are still subject to LED replacement with our ongoing 
LED retrofitting program. 
As an advocate of green building design, CLI is a member of the Green Building Council (PHILGBC) 
and has in-house Certified Green Building practitioners – certified Building for Ecologically Responsive 
Design (BERDE) professionals who underwent stringent training and qualifying exams to ensure all 
green building practices are maintained to world class standards. We integrate green building features 
in our developments, such as: 1) energy efficient construction practices, 2) use of renewable resources, 
3) environmentally friendly design features, 4) use of waste prevention systems, 5) low impact materials 
selection, and 6) design durability and life cycle assessment.
 
We have also been exploring renewable energy use in some projects by installing solar panels to power 
street lights on driveways and parking facilities, and on the common areas of housing components.GREEN DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
Beyond Measure124 125
integrated report 2021The Latitude Corporate Center is an eco-friendly structure, having acquired a BERDE Excellence certification 
with a 5-star rating. It is the first building in Cebu Business Park rated by BERDE, the country’s voluntary 
green building rating system developed by the Philippine Green Building Council. It has a 20 percent green 
space, a plaza with a green sanctuary, a green sky lounge at the 14th floor, and a garden deck at the 17th 
floor. We hope to pattern our future developments after the success of the Latitude Corporate Center in 
terms of green architecture. 
 
We strive for energy efficiency to drive both cost savings and emissions reduction. CLI aims to establish 
a system that records and tracks carbon emissions from direct and indirect energy consumption, water 
consumption, and solid waste generation. The data  we gathered for 2021 will serve as a basis to target 
reductions, to introduce energy and water saving measures, and implement programs on waste segregation 
and recycling.5. Low impact materials selection 
• More organic interior material specs- wood/ timber or recycled materials are specified for indoor and 
outdoor cladding treatment. 
• The use of LOW VOC content on materials, strictly specified on construction building manuals.
6. Design durability and life cycle assessment 
• CLI consults with green building materials and specialty consultants for longevity of materials and in 
accordance with other green building materials. 
THE LATITUDE CORPORATE CENTER: CLI’S GREENEST BUILDING
4. Use of waste prevention systems 
• Landfill - CLI’s strategy on landfill materials source is mainly on the existing excavated project earth 
material from one project to another. Several ongoing projects are providing this method to lessen 
the carbon footprint of transportation. Hauling efficiency with ideal proximity of project sites. This 
minimizes our need to quarry earth fill materials from other providers. 
• Material Recovery Facility (MRF) - proper waste disposal and segregation. 
• Re-use of waste water generated from domestic use. Treated water used for irrigation and landscape 
upkeep. 2. Use of renewable resources 
• Use of solar power to power our pumps, street lights, and common areas 
• Rainwater harvested is used for washing and irrigation of ground cover.
3. Environmentally friendly design features 
• Green wall features to improve indoor air  quality
• Parking for fuel-efficient vehicles on CLI’s establishments
• Bike parking and facilities to promote active transport
• Urban Design features - Podium Park features on projects being considered for holistic-biophilic design 
approach. Open spaces increased with open area activity to cater to active lifestyle  (jogging, zumba, 
yoga and other open air exercise). 1. Energy efficient construction practices
• HVAC energy efficient units specified for indoor installations
• Technical installations of mechanical air ducts
• Fresh intake and source system checked by third party 
• Filters and louver of quality specs maintained by PM 
• Instituted standards for improving Indoor air quality in the operation and policy building manual
• Maintaining a controlled temperature for HVAC efficiency and longevity of equipment lifespan 
• Heat recovery ventilator (HRV) units installation in offices and tenants space is practiced and specified.CLI’S GREEN BUILDING FEATURES
Beyond Measure126 127
integrated report 2021Property development can affect ecosystems within the vicinity of our sites and properties. As such, we 
take responsibility for the potential impacts of our operations. CLI ensures the protection of ecosystems 
by assigning a team comprising Business Development, Technical Planning, and Engineering for the 
management of projects. They will also be in charge of gathering baseline data during ecosystems 
assessments and frequent site visits.  
Two of CLI’s projects have natural ecosystems, one of which is a forest ecosystem in the upland area 
where Magspeak Nature Park is being developed in Brgy. Magsaysay in Balamban, Cebu and a mangrove 
ecosystem near a planned reclamation project that is part of the Minglanilla Techno-Business Park (Ming-
Mori) in Minglanilla, Cebu. These natural ecosystems support the value proposition of the projects, apart 
from the ecosystems services they provide.  
These developments impact the local ecosystem. To protect the biodiversity in the project sites, mangrove 
areas will be preserved as part of the project’s eco-preservation zone.  Magspeak Nature Park is a 
15-hectare property located within the ‘Multi-Use Zone’ of the Central Cebu Protected Landscape. Only 10% 
of the total area of the park land will be developed, leaving the majority of the areas as natural landscape 
and green space.CLIMATE ACTION:
RAISING AWARENESS AND
PROTECTING ECOSYSTEMS
GRI 304BIODIVERSITY
Although developing land and properties may be seen as having mostly negative impacts, comprehensive 
efforts can adequately preserve biodiversity and conserve ecosystem services. 
 
Comprehensive ecosystems assessments and baseline data gathering are necessary for decision-making on 
ecosystems protection, maintenance, or rehabilitation. Through this, we can allocate resources to enhance 
biodiversity such as by introducing native plant species and by conducting assisted natural regeneration 
to boost tree growth. These measures can also include a social component, wherein we partner with 
stakeholders such as local farmers and fisherfolk. These programs also have the potential to provide value 
to communities through education on biodiversity conservation and environmental protection. PROJECTS WITH AFFECTED ECOSYSTEMS
DISCLOSURE
HABITATS PROTECTED QUANTITY
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas*
Mangroves 
Tropical rainforest 
*The company has 2 projects within or adjacent to biodiversity-rich areas: 
one is in the early stage of construction and other one is in the planning stage. 
** International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species2 sites: Magspeak Nature Park and 
Minglanilla Techno Business Park   
(Ming-Mori)
1.4 hectares
14.0 hectares
Beyond Measure128 129
integrated report 2021Given the scale of our operations, environmental compliance is a means for us to ensure that our impacts 
are mitigated. As previously discussed, our land development activities have direct impacts on the 
environment. Our use of materials, energy, and water can affect soil quality, water quality, air quality, 
biodiversity and habitats, among others.  
In response to our potential environmental impacts, we established a team dedicated to managing 
and monitoring compliance. The External Affairs / Permits and Licenses Department, the Company’s 
Strategic Business Units, CLI Property Management and Engineering ensure that we comply with relevant 
environmental laws. Our in-house Pollution Control Officers (PCOs) submit a quarterly Self-Monitoring 
Report and Compliance Monitoring Report to the DENR-EMB. 
We neither had recorded cases of nor received sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 
and/or regulations in 2021. This attests to the effectiveness of our mechanisms in ensuring compliance. 
In the future, we aim to improve our system by investing in  internal training and third-party advisories 
to monitor full compliance to the environmental laws and regulations and correct any non-compliance 
issues that may occur.MANGROVES AT MING-MORI TECHNO BUSINESS PARK DEVELOPMENT
GRI 307ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
As part of its land development phase, we planted 6,000 native tree seedlings across 7 hectares of the 
Park in partnership with Ramon Aboitiz Foundation, Inc. (RAFI) and the farmers from the neighboring 
communities under the Barangay Unity Key to Integrated Development (BUKID) Multi-purpose Cooperative. Mangroves are vital to ecosystems and contribute to biodiversity, provide coastal protection, sequester 
carbon, and support livelihoods3. With the dwindling number of mangrove forests, we found it especially 
important to preserve the 1.4-hectare mangrove area within the Ming-Mori Techno Business Park 
development. This area will be preserved, enhanced, and integrated into the master plan of an 8-hectare 
open space and landscaped Central Park. We envision this space to be a main attraction for visitors while 
providing the ecosystem services mentioned previously. CLI aims to contribute to the conservation of 
marine and estuarine biodiversity by integrating the mangrove forest into our development.
3 Beck, Michael and Lange, Glenn-Marie, “Mighty Mangroves of the Philippines: Valuing Wetland Benefits for Risk Reduction & 
Conservation,” September 5, 2017, https://blogs.worldbank.org/eastasiapacific/mighty-mangroves-of-the-hilippines-valuing-wetland-
enefits-for-risk-reduction-conservationMagsPeak Nature Park is a unique project that is envisioned to be a model for environmental protection 
and enhancement. The 15-hectare ongoing project located in Brgy. Magsaysay Balamban, Cebu will have 
established demonstration areas for biodiversity management and sustainable forest restoration and green 
architecture. Once completed, MagsPeak Nature Park will provide an opportunity for upland communities 
and visitors. 
• 6,000 native tree seedlings (11 native tree species) planted across 7 hectares
• Existing trees: Narra, Mango, Molavo, Tree Fern, Alim, Bangkal, TIbig, BInunga, Kalukoi, Paguringon, 
Libas, Anabiong, Hauli, Bogo, Sangilo, Alagasi
• Planted seedlings: Narra, Banaba, Mamalis, Molave, Casia Fistula, Palawan Cherry, Balete, 
Magtalisay, Dita, Kalumpit, and Toog
• Partners: BUKID-MPC Farmers and RAFIMAGSPEAK NATURE PARK
Beyond MeasureOur fourth pillar highlights 
our dedication to engaging 
and investing in our 
people, customers, and 
communities. Customer-
centricity is among our core 
values, which is reflected 
in our efforts to prioritize 
their needs and comfort. 
We are also community-
focused, as we invest in the 
growth and development 
of our communities. These 
initiatives all contribute to 
our social and relationship 
capital – which builds our 
image as a trusted brand. 
We recognize that our 
human capital is our most 
critical asset. As such, we 
continuously ensure our 
employees’ well-being and 
that they are empowered 
through professional 
development opportunities.Our human capital is an indispensable asset in our value creation 
process, contributing directly to financial, manufactured, and 
intellectual capital. The success of CLI depends on the skills, values, 
and experiences of our people. In order to develop this, we observe 
the best practices in ensuring their well-being and augmenting their 
growth as employees. 10.4 hours/employee
Average training hoursSOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
We engage and invest in our people, 
customers and communities
PILLAR 4: PEOPLEBEYOND 
EXPECTATIONSEMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE
GRI 401
GRI 408GRI 402
GRI 409GRI 403
GRI 410GRI 405
GRI 412
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS: 
5%  
attrition rate572
total number of 
employees11:9
female to male 
ratio
P0.880 Million
Seminars and trainings1.63 Million
employee engagement activities 
5% increase vs 2020
5,946 hours
Total training hours
130 131
integrated report 2021
 Beyond ExpectationsDISCLOSURE
BY CATEGORY2020
TOTAL2021
MALE% CHANGE
FEMALEGENDERTotal number of employees
     Female employees
     Male employees
Attrition rate
New Hires
Executives (AVP, VP, etc.)
Managers
Supervisors
Associate 
Employee Turnover
Executives (AVP, VP, etc.)
Managers
Supervisors
Associate476
250
226
8.6%
134
2
14
16
102
48
1
4
8
35572
315
257
5%
40
1
6
10
23
13
0
2
2
920.2%
26.0%
13.7%
-3.6%
94
1
8
6
79
35
1
2
6
26
132 133
integrated report 2021In 2021, we maintained a resilient workforce that allowed us to efficiently continue and expand our 
operations despite the pandemic. CLI’s workforce increased by 20.2% and decreased attrition rate by 3.6% 
from 8.6% to 5.0% – directly providing employment to 572 individuals. 
We aim to be inclusive in our hiring practices and to provide equal opportunities. We have an 11:9 female 
to male employee ratio  Additionally, men and women are equally represented in our top management at 
56% (five directors) and 44% (four directors), respectively. We hire qualified employees for all positions 
regardless of gender, age, and social class. GRI 401 GRI 405DECENT EMPLOYMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
EMPLOYEE DATA
EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TURNOVERGRI 405
GRI 401-1
We recognize the need to keep up with CLI’s rapidly expanding business. Our employees are a crucial part 
of this expansion that we aim to improve our talent retention and employee engagement by showing that 
they are valued and by building up their competencies.
CLI retains and manages employees through competitive compensation. Our compensation consists of 
the monthly basic pay, fixed allowances (rice and meal), guaranteed bonus, 13th and 14th month pay, 
overtime pay, holiday pay, rest day premium, night shift premium, birthday cash gift, and an annual 
salary adjustment. We merit our employees’ good work by also offering performance bonuses, effectively 
motivating our top performers and inspiring others to do the same. 
Our benefits go above and beyond what is required, and are adjusted to our employees’ needs. We offer 
additional benefits like housing assistance, retirement funds, aside from government-mandated benefits. 
We have found it necessary to give particular attention to our employees’ health, providing them with 
medical benefits such as improved HMO coverage, free vaccinations, COVID-19 tests, and medical drives. 
This is coupled with the option to work remotely in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Additionally, 
we continued to engage with our employees through virtual and hybrid engagements such as ‘Coffee 
With The CEO’ via Zoom, hybrid townhall meetings, and learning and work sessions.
CLI takes care of employees especially in times of need. In December 2021, Typhoon 
Odette devastated the Visayas and Mindanao islands and affected our employees 
and communities. Apart from providing emergency relief, we also offer salary 
loans to help our employees and their families recover from the disaster. 
We provided a Special Emergency Loan to repair    
severely damaged houses, payable in 12 months. 
In total, we distributed PhP 5.88 million to the 176 
employees who availed of this program.
We will continue improving and adjusting our 
compensation and other benefits to ensure our 
employees’ well-being.
Beyond ExpectationsSSS
Pag-IBIG
Parental leaves
Vacation leaves
Sick leaves
Housing assistance
(aside from Pag-IBIG
Retirement fund
(aside from SSS)
Telecommuting
Flexible-working Hours
Rice Subsidy
Meal Allowance
Special Emergency Loan
(Typhoon Odette) – 176 
employees5.0%
13.0%
4.4%
95.2%
92.4%
10.0%
0.4%
100% during 
the onset of 
the pandemic 
(based on agreed 
schedule)
100%
100%
(regular 
employees)
100%
(regular 
employees)
NA6.0%
17.0%
3.9%
85.8%
70.4%
10.0%
0.9%
100% during 
the onset of 
the pandemic 
(based on agreed 
schedule)
100%
100%
(regular 
employees)
100%
(regular 
employees)
NA5.8% 
7.3%
2.83%  
 
90.20%
 
81.40%
10.0% 
0% 
100%
(during 2021 
COVID-19 surge)
100% 
100%
(regular 
employees) 
100%
(regular 
employees) 
37%6.0% 
 
10.3%
4.31% 
94.31%
 
90.21%
10.0% 
0%  
100%
(during 2021 
COVID-19 surge)
 100%
100%
(regular 
employees) 
100%
(regular 
employees)
26%EMPLOYEE BENEFITS% OF FEMALE 
EMPLOYEES WHO 
AVAILED% OF MALE 
EMPLOYEES WHO 
AVAILED% OF FEMALE 
EMPLOYEES WHO 
AVAILED% OF MALE 
EMPLOYEES WHO 
AVAILED2020 2021
14,788,395 hours
Safe Man-Hours
P15.4 Million
Health and well-being 
investments
261% increase vs 20202,370 vaccines
administed to employees 
(direct and indirect hires) and 
their dependentsFlexible work 
arrangement
Daily shuttle service for 
commuting employees
to reduce exposure to COVID-19Daily provision of disinfectants 
and regular disinfection in 
workspaces and common areas5
No.of  LTI135
No. of safety trainings 
134 135
integrated report 2021HEALTH AND SAFETY IN CONSTRUCTION SITES AND CORPORATE OFFICESOur employees’ health and safety is our top priority, especially amid the pandemic and other disasters such 
as Typhoon Odette. 
We are cognizant of the inherent risks that come with construction and development. An occupational health 
and safety programs are in place that covers our employees and extends to indirect hires such as our 
contractors and property managers. Regular trainings are held for key personnel, workers in construction 
sites, and security personnel in managed properties. We also routinely assess the sites to ensure 
compliance to our standards. 
We conducted 135 safety trainings had 14,788,395 safe man-hours, and had zero lost time accidents 
(LTA) in our construction sites. We had five cases of workplace-related injuries, which were quickly and 
appropriately addressed by our contractors. In our corporate offices, we recovered 44 cases of illnesses or 
fever for the whole year. In these cases, our employees were able to avail of their benefits such as paid sick 
leaves. Our practices on COVID-19 prevention also proved to be effective, considering that we were able to 
limit the number of cases throughout the year despite local surges. 
The COVID-19 pandemic and Typhoon Odette were the most significant risks encountered in 2021. While 
these may have affected our rapid growth, CLI remained as the leading real estate developer in the VisMin 
area. We achieved this through our culture of promoting health and safety, and our attentiveness to our 
stakeholders’ needs. 
The pandemic posed the risk of viral exposure and spread in the workplace – operating safely and efficiently 
was a challenge. We reverted to flexible work arrangements following government protocols, having 
workspaces on limited capacity. We continued to organize employee engagement activities with a more 
balanced approach through online and ‘bubble’ activities, with fewer people in a group at a given time.
Typhoon Odette caused fuel scarcity, power outage, connectivity issues, limited mobility, challenges in 
the households, manpower shortage, closure of establishments due to physical damage, and problems on 
food supply. 
In the future, we aim to continue ensuring the health and safety of our workers and employees. WORKPLACE CONDITIONS
GRI 403 GRI 403-9
Beyond Expectations136 137
integrated report 2021GRI 404
GRI 402 GRI 408 GRI 409 GRI 410 GRI 412LABOR MANAGEMENT AND LAWS, HUMAN RIGHTSTOTAL TRAINING HOURS
AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEEHUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
We protect the rights and safety of our employees through our company policies and the work culture 
that we promote, which are part of our efforts in empowering and safeguarding their well-being. Apart 
from affecting their well-being, a compromise in our employees’ rights as laborers impacts our employee 
retention and engagement, and our overall ability to create value for society. We aim to build the same 
culture of health, safety, and respect within and outside the organization. 
We rolled out the CLI Handbook on Employee Discipline and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethical 
Standards which can be accessed here.  These contain policies that ensure fair and consistent treatment of 
our people, outlining them such that it is easily understood by the employees.
CLI guarantees full respect for human rights and upholds the dignity of employees.  We comply with the Labor 
Code requirements and go beyond providing the standard benefits mandated by the government. Among the 
policies that relate to human rights explicitly cited in the employee handbook are the zero tolerance of all 
forms of workplace harrassment such as sexual harassment and acts of lasciviousness. We also make sure 
that our partners, suppliers, and contractors follow the labor laws and regulations we uphold. 
In 2021, we conducted more than 50 consultations conducted with employees concerning employee-
related policies. Although, we have created an environment such that we maintain open communication 
with our employees.  
While not detailed in our code of conduct, CLI does not tolerate child labor and forced labor in the workplace. 
We have not had any legal actions or documented cases regarding this, and we strive to improve our business 
processes and procedures so that we maintain as a forced labor- and child labor-free company. 
We will continue upholding and promoting decent and ethical labor in the workplace, and cascade 
compliance with labor laws and regulations to our partners, suppliers, and contractors. Part of our efforts to empower employees is contributing to their professional growth and equipping them 
with skills and knowledge that will enable them to advance their careers. This year, we provided 5,946 
hours of training, which is about 27% less hours compared to the year prior. The reduced training hours was 
due to the focus on developing the Behavioral Competencies that would upgrade our competency-based 
training offerings by 2022. 
EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS
GRI 404
Beyond ExpectationsENHANCING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
138 139
integrated report 2021GRI 416 GRI 417 GRI 418Based on the total and average hours, our female employees participated in more training compared to 
their male counterparts since [provide context]. Despite this, we ensure that our employees experience the 
same opportunities in acquiring knowledge and honing the skills they need for their development. As this 
benefits our employees, human capital development is also advantageous for CLI as it allows us to meet the 
needs of our rapidly expanding business. Improving our employees’ competencies allows us to better cater 
to our customers, clients, and better service our communities. 
We believe sustainability should be part of advancing as professionals. Moving forward, we aim to embed 
sustainability into our culture and instill this framework into our employees – capacitating them with the 
ability to identify the sustainable features of CLI properties and products beyond the traditional sales pitch, 
interconnect human behavior with environmental, social and economic impacts, and recognize corporate 
sustainability initiatives that contribute to global sustainable development goals.
We pride ourselves on our VisMin expertise. Our local knowledge and proficiency allow us to strategically 
select prime locations and accommodate the demand and needs of our customers while providing for the 
development of host communities. This entails CLI to sell projects at higher velocity, turn-over quickly on 
our developments, and move swiftly from pre-selling to construction and delivery. Our optimal market 
acceptance is known to the 1,785 real estate brokers and 11,000 sales agents across the VisMin regions 
who continuously support us and engage with us.
The experiences of our customers and their satisfaction are highly valuable, and their feedback directly 
impacts our business. This reflects our ability to deliver as a company, particularly in terms of the 
customer’s reservation of units, monthly equity payments, prompt construction updates, smooth take-out 
and turn-over to property management.
In 2021, the pandemic and Typhoon Odette caused delays in payments and cancellations of units reserved 
(for sale or lease) in our areas of operation. Organizational inefficiencies like these can result in customer 
dissatisfaction, affecting overall how our customers trust our services and brand. Despite these challenges, 
we were able to address our customers’ needs.
We resolved these issues by stretching equity installment terms. We granted payment deferrals and grace 
periods to buyers on their equity installments. Zero penalties were charged on delayed payments until 
mid-year. We also enhanced in terms of digitalization and innovation to strengthen our relationship with 
our network of brokers and sellers by meeting their needs more efficiently. These helped us continue and 
expand our business while navigating through the pandemic.These are the online services we currently offer:
• Buy-A-Home microsite to provide sales partners quick access to new project inventories and 
promotions;
• Masters Portal application for homeowners to track their payment status, get CLI construction updates 
and promos; and
• CLIO, a Facebook chatbot for 24/7 response to general inquiries.
• Online Reservation Process
• CLI Elite Circle: Buyers’ Rewards & Loyalty Program
• Online Homefest
• Flagship Sales Office opening and new features: Digital/Queuing System, Ticketing General Queries, 
Counter, Interactive screens 
• Virtual Project Launches and hybrid events like topping off and groundbreaking
• Virtual Turn-Over Experience
• Dedicated Hotline and Email Addresses
We value advertisements through word of mouth and first-hand experience by brokers, agents, and return 
customers. CLI is currently developing a system to determine customer satisfaction and continually 
enhancing feedback management programs to gather, measure and use data in the company’s value 
creation process. 
While no customer surveys were conducted within the year, their continuous patronage attests to their 
satisfaction. We aim to continue connecting with customers openly, and going above and beyond in ensuring 
their satisfaction.
Our strategic marketing and branding allow us to succeed in the increasingly competitive real estate 
industry particularly residential sales and commercial operations. Customers have begun to look for 
businesses that stand out, whether through a powerful online presence, good brand recognition, mobile 
apps, and/or online events that they can conveniently substitute face-to-face activities. We advertise 
our products through a multi-channel approach that involves billboards, LED screens, brochures, radio 
advertisements, social and digital media marketing, and other available means.
In particular, product advertising using digital media channels have become increasingly important with 
the accelerating digitalization. As we focus on this, we recognize the various risks that come with it. This 
includes third-party claims for intellectual property infringement and the advertising space vis a vis other 
content; and advertising our products on social media that may appear next to or with inappropriate 
content, negatively affecting our brand value. To an extent, these present business risk, data security and 
legal risk, and reputational risk. 
In light of all these risks, we ensure that our advertising and branding campaigns comply with existing laws 
and regulations of government regulatory agencies such as Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and 
Ads Standards Committee (ASC) for all ads and promotions that are accessible to the general public outside 
the company’s facilities. Throughout the years, we have attracted a sizable number of customers, and have 
received no substantiated complaints on our marketing. GRI 417MARKETING AND LABELLING
Beyond ExpectationsCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
140 141
integrated report 2021CLI ensures that our customers’ data and information are protected. Only duly authorized personnel can 
access customer personal information that are logged in CLI’s database such as names, addresses, contact 
information, signature, and other details that we collected in the course of our transactions with them. Our 
efforts so far have proven to be effective, with zero data breaches detected and no substantiated complaints 
on customer privacy reported. 
However, cyber hacking is a risk that threatens our customers’ data security. This may disrupt our 
operations and/or loss/theft of corporate information and/or personal identifiable information. To protect 
corporate and customer data, we implement a strong security policy in secured network protection 
throughout data management. This includes:
• Secured e-mail system
• 24x7 IT Service Desk that also monitors all our network, systems and applications
• CLI network firewall protection
There is still room for improvement in our data management system. CLI continues to assess our 
customer experience journey and review our policies and programs to enhance brand loyalty and maximize 
profitability. We are now incorporating data privacy as a key principle in all our programs, projects, 
procedures, measures, software and technologies.
CLI prioritizes the customers’ health and safety, particularly when they are in our premises or at the project 
sites or managed properties. We have received no substantiated complaints on the health and safety of our 
projects, which attests to all our efforts. 
Our property management team spearheads the additional sanitation and safety measures we enforced in 
all operating projects. Furthermore, we ensure that our properties do not pose any risk to health and safety 
to our stakeholders, from the design process to construction and operations. 
CLI is committed to meet the highest building standards to be resilient to any structural threats Hence, risk 
assessments in our premises are periodically conducted, albeit accidents out of our control may still happen 
within our premises, projects, and facilities.GRI 418
GRI 416CUSTOMER PRIVACY, DATA SECURITY
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY CLI already contributes greatly to local economies and communities through regular operations across the 21 
cities and municipalities and 48 barangays across the Visayas and Mindanao regions where we are present. 
We source mostly from local suppliers, wherein 70% of our total spending is in the VisMin areas and 74% of 
our suppliers being from key cities in the region. We have generated jobs for over 12,000 people from direct 
and indirect hires, and other employment supported through our developments’ office and retail space leasing. 
Once we complete our ongoing projects, we expect to support hundreds of thousands more livelihoods. 
To further our efforts in advancing community development, we extend assistance through different programs 
that contribute to livelihood generation, infrastructure, decent and affordable housing, access to other 
opportunities, and disaster response. In 2021, CLI allotted Php10.67 million for community investments.
2021 TOTAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS:
PHP 10.67 MILLION
Housing
Health and pandemic responseCommunity infrastructure
Sports and youth developmentExternal partnership programs
Disaster responseArts, heritage and culture, and LGU festivities
Community contributions and 
assistance to host communities 
Religious communities, Archdiocese of Cebu, 
500 years of Christianity
Scholarship grant
IT and communications support2021 TOTAL 
COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS:
PHP 10.67 MILLION 21%21%
20%20%
14%14%11%11%11%11%10%10%6%6%3%3%2%2%1%1%1%1%
GRI 413
Beyond Expectations142 143
integrated report 2021We conducted public consultations and 
Information, Education and Communication 
(IEC) programs, community needs assessment 
and engagement in the vulnerable sector, and 
extended our partnership for infrastructures that 
will benefit the vulnerable residents of our partner 
communities. We have remained steadfast in our 
pandemic and disaster response while honoring 
the achievements of a national athlete.
In the Municipality of Minglanilla, we conducted 
barangay consultations with various sectors 
such as the women’s organizations, fisherfolks’ 
associations, and municipal government and 
barangay workers of Brgys. Calajoan, Tungkil, 
Tungkop and Tulay to discuss the construction 
of CLI’s techno hub project. As our partner 
communities, we aim to involve them in the 
planning of different project development and 
construction opportunities for the residents once 
the project takes place.
Moreover, we partnered with Mandaue City to 
plan for a socialized housing building for informal 
settler families whose homes were devastated 
by a major fire incident in 2019 in Brgy. Tipolo, 
Mandaue City. Plans were also being done for 
another socialized housing project in Brgy. 
Bankal, Lapu-Lapu City in partnership with 
the Justice Peace and Integrity of Creation, an 
Arnold Janssen/SVD organization supporting 
disadvantaged members of the community to 
provide shelter to the homeless whose livelihood 
depends on scavenging and collecting recyclables 
from dumpsites.
CLI CARES was launched in 2020 to primarily 
support employees and their families throughout 
the pandemic. We helped construct a quarantine 
facility in South Road Properties in support of the 
City Government of Cebu City in 2020. In 2021, we 
continued our COVID-19 response initiatives and 
provided PhP 1 million worth in allowances for 
nurses in COVID wards in six (6) partner hospitals 
in Cebu City. We also continued supporting our 
partner LGUs in the vaccination roll out.
Our commitment in building resilient communities 
is most apparent during calamities. This year, 
we focused on responding to the needs of host 
communities after the onslaught of Typhooon 
Odette while continuing our pandemic response. 
We provided food packs, water, roofing materials 
and solar lamps to over 4,000 families in 22 
partner barangays in 5 cities and municipalities in 
Cebu Province. We also provided PhP 30 million 
assistance in roof repairs for more than 800 
homeowners affected by the typhoon. Beyond this, we help communities recover through other 
programs that will contribute to long-term change. 
We also celebrated silver medalist Carlo Paalam’s 
extraordinary achievement at the Tokyo Olympics 
by granting him a PhP 3.6 million, 2-level, 
3-bedroom house-and-lot unit in Velmiro Uptown 
CDO in Cagayan de Oro. Carlos Paalam, after 
all, lives in the city. This was the first house and 
lot that CLI has given to an individual who has 
brought honor to the country.
Through responsible planning and development, 
CLI has helped transform the local landscape 
and economy – allowing us to build lasting 
partnerships with our communities. Through 
our socialized housing projects, we can provide 
decent and affordable housing to hundreds of 
homeless and informal settler families. For 
instance, the medium rise building in Brgy. 
Lorega San Miguel that is expected to resettle 
100 families living along creeks, rivers and 
other danger zones. Currently, our completed 
socialized housing projects include Villa Casita 
Balamban, Pinamalayan Socialized Housing, and 
Villa Casita North. We have also contributed public 
infrastructures such as access roads, drainage 
systems, public markets, and transport terminals.
Apart from built infrastructure, CLI provides 
livelihood and other opportunities to host and 
partner communities. We conduct social baseline 
studies in our host and neighboring communities 
to determine the existing services in the area 
and the locals’ skills. Guided by information 
from our needs assessment, we plan to  launch 
appropriate education-to-employment programs, 
disaster preparedness and response, environment 
and sanitation projects, and other activities that 
support the needs of localities. 
While our efforts benefit people, CLI recognizes 
that property development and construction 
may impact local communities negatively. Our 
construction operations may impact biodiversity, 
cause noise pollution and air pollution through 
dust, result in issues with public access to areas, 
and cause locals to be displaced. As discussed 
previously, CLI manages these potential impacts 
by conducting baseline assessments prior to 
construction and engaging with stakeholders to 
ensure their well-being. 
Beyond ExpectationsGOOD GOVERNANCE AND 
ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICE
We strive to achieve organizational efficiency 
and uphold good corporate governance
PILLAR 5:  PROCESS/PRACTICEBEYOND 
COMPLIANCE
144 145
integrated report 2021
 Beyond Compliance146 147
integrated report 2021
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1
1 2
3 45 6 7
9 8234
5
67 89
JOSE R.
SOBERANO III
Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)MA. ROSARIO
B. SOBERANO
Director, Executive Vice President
and Treasurer
JOSE FRANCO
B. SOBERANO
Director, Executive Vice President and 
Chief Operating Officer (COO)BEAUREGARD
GRANT L. CHENG
Director and
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)MA. AURORA D. 
GEOTINA-GARCIA
Independent Director
JOANNA MARIE S. 
BERGUNDTHAL
Director, Senior Vice President for 
Marketing and HR and Asst. TreasurerATTY. MA. JASMINE 
S. OPORTO
Independent Director
RUFINO LUIS
T. MANOTOK
Lead Independent DirectorSTEPHEN A. TAN
Non-Executive Director
146 147 integrated report 2021 Beyond Compliance148 149
integrated report 2021
KEY EXECUTIVES
4 2135
6108
7 91112
ENGR. PEDRITO A. 
CAPISTRANO, JR
Vice President for Engineering
MARIE ROSE
C. YULO
Vice President for SalesATTY. LARRI-NIL
G. VELOSO
Vice President for Legal
JESSEL M.
KABIGTING
Vice President for 
OperationsCONNIE N. GUIEB
Vice President 
for Accounting
SYLVAN JOHN
M. MONZON
Vice President for
Business DevelopmentMARK LEO
M. CHANG
Vice President for 
External AffairsENGR. ANGEL
LINUS R. YAP
Asst. Vice President for 
EngineeringMATHIAS 
BERGUNDTHAL
Director of Asset - CLI Hotels
JANELLA MAE
B. SOBERANO
Asst. Vice President 
for Corporate 
Communications and 
Customer RelationsRHODORA 
M. VICENCIO
Vice President for
Property Management
JULIETA R. 
CASTANOS
Asst. Vice President for
Business DevelopmentJAMES M. 
ABADIA
Asst. Vice President for 
Business Development 
and General Manager for 
Ming-MoriMARILOU 
PLANDO
Asst. Vice President for 
Risk Management1
72 8 3 9
410
5 11 6 12
Beyond ComplianceCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CLI has always been committed to exemplary corporate governance 
and compliance. In 2021, we further asserted our commitment 
by establishing our ERM Framework, integration of sustainability 
practices, compliance with the recently adopted AMLC Law 
and Regulations for RE Developers, continued improvement of 
internal processes, creation of new policies, and enhanced existing 
governance policies. 
Guided by our core vision and mission of being the most customer-
centric and community-focused developer in the Philippines, we 
fervently responded to the needs of communities affected by Super 
Typhoon Odette when it hit Cebu.
CLI is fully committed to promoting exemplary corporate governance 
by employing the highest professional and ethical standards in 
conducting its business. In 2021, CLI sustained its concerted effort to 
further bolster its corporate governance, making it an extraordinary 
year, highlighted by the establishment of its ERM Framework, full 
integration of Sustainability Practices, dedicated compliance with the 
recently adopted AMLC Law and Regulations for RE Developers, and 
adoption of new and enhanced corporate governance policies. 
150 151
integrated report 2021
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Led by its Chief Risk Officer and with the guidance of the Board Risk Oversight Committee, CLI established 
and fully implemented its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework in 2021. CLI’s ERM Framework 
is based on ISO 31000:2018, which aims to provide a foundation for effective planning, implementation, 
monitoring, review, and continued improvement of the organization’s risk management. It establishes 
a methodology for the identification, assessment, and management of risk, responsibilities for risk 
management, accountabilities for good governance, and mechanisms to report risk-related information. 
CLI’s risk management process includes risk identification process wherein all significant risks are identified 
through workshops, brainstorming sessions, benchmarking, questionnaires, and interviews and meetings 
with various stakeholders. The risk classification and risk process mapping also provided guidance in 
determining CLI’s top risks and establishing CLI’s risk appetite. Risk analysis and risk evaluation of these 
top risks led to the identification of top ten risks which are priorities for treatment, monitoring and regular 
assessment for effectiveness of treatment plans are then conducted to assess what risks require treatment 
and in what order of priority. 
In risk treatment, CLI identified its top ten risks and developed plans and approaches to address them, 
including risk mitigation processes, risk prevention measures and contingency plans. Risk monitoring, review 
and control are essential and ongoing components of the risk process and are continuously undertaken to 
detect any changes in the internal or external context including the identification of emerging risks.  
ERM is closely coordinated with CLIs Internal Audit for the assessment of risk treatment effectiveness, 
deviations of the planned mitigations and new treatments applied to further enhance the intended outcome 
of the risk treatment and  options, and assess if an identified risk has changed and requires escalation, 
or is no longer valid and can be archived. The risk reviews are both self-initiated and/or undertaken 
by independent assessors. Active risks continue to be standing items on business units, departmental, 
corporate, committee and board meeting agendas. 
To ensure that adequate risk management competency levels are achieved and maintained, CLI continuously 
pursues regular training of new tenured and new employees to achieve our long term goal of a risk-aware 
culture. CLI involves everyone in the risk management process and its application in the organization. The 
ERM Framework applies to all CLI personnel and areas of its business including its extended network such 
as contractors, suppliers, third-party service providers, sellers and brokers, and JV partners. CLI has had a 
long ERM journey, but 2021 ultimately proved to be the year that finally institutionalized its ERM program – 
cementing the Company’s robust and ethical culture of excellence and corporate governance.
Beyond Compliance152 153
integrated report 2021SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING COMPLIANCE BOARD PERFORMANCE AND
I-ACGR ASSESSMENT
This year is a milestone for CLI’s sustainability 
goals. With the hiring of a Sustainability Manager 
and guided by the Board Corporate Governance 
Committee, the Company developed a strategy 
and structure to implement CLI’s sustainability 
initiatives. This 2021 report is the Company’s 
first sustainability report in accordance with 
globally accepted systems and standards 
for sustainability and corporate disclosure. 
Specifically, this report complies with the GRI 
framework and the International <IR> Framework 
for Integrated Reporting.
Moving forward, CLI is fully committed to making 
sustainability an essential and integral component 
of its overall operations, creating long-term value 
for its business and stakeholders by driving 
innovation and improving the quality of life of its 
people, customers, and communities while striving 
to manage its environmental impacts responsibly, 
ethically, and with transparency.  
Amending RA 9160 (Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001), the implementation of RA 11521 includes real 
estate developers as covered persons for Anti-Money Laundering (AML) purposes. This legal and regulatory 
development produced extensive new compliance requirements for real estate developers, including 
registration with the Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC), compliance with its issuances and regulations, 
and submission of necessary documentary requirements such as digitization reports and covered and 
suspicious transactions reports. 
Through diligent effort, CLI and 18 other real estate developers within the larger CLI Group of Companies 
successfully registered with AMLC. With the guidance and supervision of the Board Corporate Governance 
Committee, CLI passed and approved its Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention policy 
and programs in 2021. This is geared towards the promotion of high ethical standards, observance of 
good corporate governance specifically in matters of AML and counter-terrorism financing (CTF), and with 
the objective of preventing and shielding CLI from being used, intentionally or unintentionally, for money 
laundering and/or terrorist financing.With the goal of further improving its evaluation 
system, CLI rolled out its digitalized Board and 
Committee assessment forms in 2021. The duly 
accomplished assessment forms were then 
reviewed, verified, and tabulated by the Office 
of the Compliance Officer. A summary of the 
results of the assessments, including the various 
performance ratings and comments of directors 
and committee members, were presented and 
discussed during the respective Corporate 
Governance Committee and Board meetings.
CLI continues to undertake measures to comply 
with leading practices on good corporate 
governance. The Board of Directors and 
Management Team promoted and implemented 
various principles and recommendations in SEC 
Memorandum Circular No. 19, series of 2016 
(Code of Corporate Governance for Publicly-
Listed Companies), PSE CG Guidelines, as well 
as recommended practices under the ASEAN 
Corporate Governance Scorecard. In case of non-
compliance with the recommended principles and 
best practices, CLI identifies and explains how the 
overall principles being recommended are still 
achieved by the Company. These are all reported 
in its comprehensive Integrated Annual Corporate 
Governance Reports (I-ACGRs) submitted to the 
SEC, uploaded to PSE EDGE, and posted in CLI’s 
website. CLI’s improved and enhanced I-ACGRs 
continue to provide a clear and succinct picture of 
its compliances with the recommended principles 
and best practices in corporate governance, at par, 
if not exceeding industry standards. 
In 2021, CLI rolled out and cascaded various policies and programs to employees aimed at promoting 
awareness, understanding, and implementation of CLI’s good corporate governance practices. This is 
highlighted in CLI’s updated Handbook on Employee Discipline, CLI Executives and Company Travel Policy, 
Transfer Pricing Policy, Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention policy and program, 
updated Executive Committee Charter and Limits of Authority, Policy on New Investments, Shareholder 
Advances, Capital Infusions, and Management Services, among others.
CLI recognizes and understands that good corporate governance is essential to sound strategic business 
management and sustainable growth and development. The Company fully commits and continues to 
bolster and enhance its corporate governance, not only through its continued and consistent compliance 
with laws, rules, regulations, and corporate best practices, but also by improving and strengthening its 
internal controls, risk management, investor and other stakeholder relations, checks and balances, policies 
and procedures. 
As a result of its continued efforts and improvements in the area of corporate governance, CLI received the 
Special Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Recognition during the 9th PropertyGuru Philippines 
Property Awards held on 11 November 2021.
Beyond Compliance154 155
integrated report 2021
BOARD DIVERSITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRAININGThe overall management and supervision of CLI is vested in its Board of Directors, which is composed of 
experienced professionals with collective working knowledge and expertise relevant to the real estate 
industry. The CLI Board has an appropriate mix of competence and expertise. The directors of the CLI Board 
remain qualified for their positions individually and collectively. 
The Board oversees the development, review, and approval of CLI’s business objectives and strategies. 
The Board also oversees and monitors the implementation of these business objectives and strategies. The 
Board reviews business objectives and strategies every board meeting. It is aided by a Management Team 
that prepares relevant information and reports concerning the business operations and financial condition 
of the company. Together, the Board and Management Committee conducted its 2022 Strategic Planning 
sessions on October 01-02, 2021 with the theme “Moving Forward & Onward”. 
To avoid groupthink and ensure that optimal 
decision-making is achieved, CLI observes a board 
diversity policy that encompasses gender, age, 
ethnicity, culture, skills, competence, and knowledge. 
The CLI Board is composed of highly respected top 
executives and seasoned real estate professionals 
with diverse skills, competence, and expertise 
in the fields of economics, accounting, finance, 
management, business administration, marketing, 
communication, manufacturing and management 
engineering, agricultural economics, legal, and 
landscape architecture, among other academic 
disciplines and fields of endeavor. Moreover, 
the Board has an appropriate mix of youth and 
experience with ages ranging from 34 to 71.
CLI’s Policy on Diversity has been achieved and met 
as evidenced by the Board’s composition of nearly 
majority number of female directors (i.e., four out 
of the nine directors), an optimal mix of youth and 
experience, and all of whom have diversified skills, 
culture, ethnicity, competence and knowledge. CLI provides in its Board Charter and Manual on 
Corporate Governance a policy on training for 
directors. All first-time directors are required to 
attend and complete CLI’s orientation program, 
while all other directors are required to attend 
annual corporate governance training. In 
compliance with best practices, CLI requires 
directors to meet minimum hours of corporate 
governance seminars conducted by SEC-accredited 
institutional providers, i.e., at least eight (8) hours 
for first-time directors, and four (4) hours per 
annum for the annual continuing training of all 
other directors. The Compliance Officer monitors 
the directors’ compliance with this training policy.
For FY2021, all members of the CLI Board 
attended the requisite training and seminars and 
were accordingly certified as compliant by the 
Compliance Officer (see summary table for the 
listing of the FY2021 corporate governance and 
training attended by CLI directors and key officers).BOARD OF DIRECTORSEXECUTIVE AND BOARD REMUNERATION
CONFLICT OF INTERESTIn compliance with CLI’s Manual on Corporate 
Governance, the Board aligns the remuneration of 
key officers and Board members with the long-
term interests of CLI. The Board adopts a policy 
specifying the relationship between remuneration 
and performance. Directors do not participate in 
discussions or deliberations involving his/her own 
remuneration.
CLI grants remuneration to its executive directors 
and senior executives based on performance, 
i.e., individual performance, and collective 
performance of their respective groups or 
departments, which are pursuant to identified key 
deliverables and other performance indicators 
aligned with its long-term interest and objectives.
As of fiscal year ending 31 December 2021, the 
remuneration of Board members and key officers had 
been overseen by the Board Corporate Governance 
Committee. However, starting 2022, this will be 
devolved to the newly created Compensation and 
Benefits Committee. The Compensation and Benefits 
Committee was formally organized and constituted 
on 21 March 2022.  It is a fundamental principle in CLI that a director 
should not use his position to profit or gain some 
benefit or advantage for himself and/or his related 
interest. He is mandated to avoid situations that may 
compromise his impartiality. For FY2021, there was 
no transaction where a CLI director had a material 
interest affecting the company and/or otherwise any 
conflict of interest (actual or potential).
CLI directors are also mandated to notify the Board 
before accepting a directorship in another company. 
CLI does not have any executive director who serves 
more than two boards of listed companies outside 
the CLI Group. 
Meanwhile, CLI discloses Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs) and other unusual or 
infrequently occurring transactions consistent 
with its RPT Policy that sets out the guidelines, 
categories, and thresholds governing the review, 
approval, or ratification of RPTs by the Board 
and/or CLI shareholders and ensure that these 
RPTs are duly accounted for and disclosed in 
accordance with relevant laws and regulations. 
Spearheaded by the Board RPT Committee, 
CLI rolled out its enhanced Transfer Pricing 
Policy in adherence with the requirements and 
issuances of BIR. The Transfer Pricing Policy 
sets the general principles and guidelines that 
govern the transfer pricing of CLI’s related-party 
transactions, and ensures that these are entered 
on an arm’s-length basis by all related parties 
within the CLI Group of Companies.
In compliance with the provisions of CLI’s Manual 
on Corporate Governance and Board Charter, 
directors with material interest in a transaction 
affecting the company and in other conflict 
of interest situations (actual or potential) are 
required to fully and immediately disclose the 
same and are mandated to abstain from taking 
part in its deliberations. 
Beyond Compliance156 157
integrated report 2021ELECTION AND COMPOSITION OF CLI BOARD
The following directors were elected during the 2021 annual stockholders meeting held on 27 May 2021:
JOSE R. SOBERANO III
Age: 66
Position: Chairman of the 
Board, President and CEO 
Citizenship: Filipino
BEAUREGARD GRANT
L. CHENG
Age: 40
Position: Director and CFO
Citizenship: Filipino
ATTY. MA. JASMINE S. OPORTO
Age: 62
Position: Independent Director
Citizenship: FilipinoMA. ROSARIO B. SOBERANO
Age: 64
Position: Director, Executive 
Vice President and Treasurer
Citizenship: Filipino
JOANNA MARIE S. 
BERGUNDTHAL
Age: 34
Position: Director, Senior Vice 
President for HR and Marketing 
and Asst. Treasurer
Citizenship: Filipino
MA. AURORA D.
GEOTINA-GARCIA
Age: 69
Position: Independent Director
Citizenship: FilipinoJOSE FRANCO B. SOBERANO
Age: 36
Position: Director, Executive 
Vice President and COO
Citizenship: Filipino
RUFINO LUIS T. MANOTOK
Age: 71
Position: Lead Independent 
Director
Citizenship: Filipino
STEPHEN A. TAN
Age: 65
Position: Non-Executive 
Director
Citizenship: Filipino
In compliance with the requirements of the SRC and SEC’s CG Code for PLCs, the Board of Directors is 
composed of three (3) independent directors, who constitute one-third of CLI’s board membership. CLI’s 
independent directors are Mr. Rufino Luis T. Manotok, Ms. Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia, and Atty. Ma. 
Jasmine S. Oporto. 
The CLI Board also re-elected Mr. Rufino Luis T. Manotok as its Lead Independent Director, a highly 
respected executive in the business community who has held several key positions in the largest 
conglomerates and companies in the Philippines. He is currently an Independent Director of First Metro 
Investment Corporation and a member of the Board of Directors of Manila Doctors Hospital. He was the 
Chairman and President of Ayala Automotive Holdings Corporation from 2009 to 2012. From 2007 to 2009, 
he was Ayala Corporation’s Senior Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer. 
He was also Managing Director, heading the Strategic Planning Group of Ayala Corporation from 1998 to 
2006. He finished the Advanced Management Program of Harvard Business School in 1994.  He earned his 
Master of Business Management degree from the Asian Institute of Management in 1973, and Bachelor of 
Arts, major in Economics from Ateneo de Manila University in 1971. 
CLI’s independent directors possess all the qualifications and none of the disqualifications to hold 
such positions. The independent directors do not hold interests or relationships that may hinder their 
independence from the company or its management, or which would interfere with the exercise of 
independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. CLI’s independent directors had 
perfect attendance in all of their respective Board and Committee meetings in 2021 (see summary table 
below for the listing of the FY2021 board and committee meetings).
Pursuant to CLI’s CG Manual and policy on setting limit of Board seats, non-executive directors, including 
independent directors, can only concurrently serve up to a maximum of five (5) publicly-listed companies. 
As of the calendar year ending 31 December 2021, all non-executive directors of CLI are compliant with 
the limit on board directorships. None of the CLI directors (executive or non-executive) holds directorships 
in five (5) or more publicly-listed companies to ensure that they have sufficient time to fully prepare for 
meetings, challenge management’s proposals and views, and oversee the long-term strategy of CLI.
Beyond Compliance158 159
integrated report 2021The Audit Committee assists the Board in the performance and fulfillment of its oversight responsibility 
over CLI’s financial reporting process, system of internal control, internal and external audit processes, 
and monitoring of compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. The Audit Committee oversees 
the internal audit team’s work and is primarily responsible in recommending the appointment and removal 
of CLI’s external auditor using a robust process for approving and recommending its appointment, 
reappointment, removal, and fees. The process includes the review and recommendation by the Audit 
Committee, review and approval of the CLI Board, and further approval and ratification by the CLI 
shareholders. The Audit Committee also reviews the performance of the external auditor. Pursuant to CLI’s 
Manual on Corporate Governance, the external auditor shall be rotated or changed or the signing partner of 
the external auditing firm assigned to CLI should be rotated or changed every five (5) years. 
For the audit of CLI’s FY2021 financial statements, the external auditor, Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A), 
assigned a new engagement and signing partner in the person of Mailene Sigue-Bisnar (CPA Reg. No. 
0090230; Partner- No. 90230-SEC, until December 31, 2025). For CLI’s FY2020 financial statements, P&A’s 
engagement and signing partner was Christopher M. Ferareza.
 For the 2021-2022 term, the Audit Committee is composed of four (4) qualified non-executive directors, three 
(3) of whom, including the Chairperson, are independent directors. All the members of the Audit Committee 
have relevant background, knowledge, skills and/or experience in the areas of accounting, auditing, and 
finance. Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia, the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, is not the Chairman or 
Chairperson of the CLI Board or of any other committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEEThe CLI Board has fully engaged and functioning Board committees that support in the effective 
performance of its functions. As of 2021, CLI’s principal Board Committees consist of the Audit Committee, 
Corporate Governance Committee, Related-Party Transaction Committee, Risk Oversight Committee, and 
Nomination Committee. 
All established CLI Committees have their respective charters that state in plain terms their respective 
purposes, memberships, structures, operations, reporting process, resources, and standards for evaluating 
its performance. All CLI Committee Charters are fully disclosed on CLI’s website.CLI BOARD COMMITTEES
The Audit Committee also evaluates and determines the non-audit work, if any, of the external auditor. It 
approves all non-audit services conducted by the external auditor and disallows the same if it will conflict 
with its duties as external auditor or will otherwise pose a threat to its independence. 
For FY2021, the non-audit services conducted by P&A pertain to tax services, specifically on the review of 
CLI’s Information Return on Transactions with Related Party (BIR Form 1709). The scope of work involves 
consultancy, review, and guidance on the preparation and filing of BIR Form 1709 to the BIR, as attachment 
to the FY2020 Annual Income Tax Return. The non-audit fees of the aforementioned tax services amounted 
to PhP 69,000.00 (exclusive of 12% VAT).
The following is the summary breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees paid to P&A for FY2021 (exclusive 
of 12% VAT): 
PhP 2,533,000.00
TotalPhP 2,464,000.00
PhP 69,000.00Audit and Audit Related Fees 
Non-audit fees
The fully engaged CLI Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in the performance of its 
corporate governance oversight responsibilities and in ensuring compliance with and proper observance of 
corporate governance principles and practices.
For the 2021-2022 term, the CG Committee is composed of four (4) non-executive directors, three of whom 
are independent directors. The Chairperson, Atty. Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto is also an independent director.
In the area of sustainability, the Corporate Governance Committee is supported by its Sustainability Head, 
Vera R. Alejandria. Prior to joining CLI, Ms. Alejandria held various positions in Cebu Holdings, Inc. and 
Ayala Land, Inc. spanning over 27 years, including as Sustainability and Community Relations Manager, 
Project Lead (Cebu Business District Action Team), Corporate Communication and Customer Affairs Division 
Manager, and Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Management System Auditor. Ms. Alejandria is a 
Certified Sustainability Reporting Specialist and Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
Beyond ComplianceBeyond Compliance
 160 161
integrated report 2021
The Risk Oversight Committee ensures the proper implementation by the Board 
of its risk oversight functions over management’s practices across the company. The 
Risk Oversight Committee provides guidance to management in identifying, evaluating, and 
monitoring existing and emerging risks for proper treatment or mitigation.
For the 2021-2022 term, CLI’s Risk Oversight Committee is composed of four (4) qualified non-executive 
directors, three (3) of whom, including the Chairperson, are independent directors. The members of the Risk 
Oversight Committee, who are all experienced executives and who have held various key positions in other 
PLCs, all have relevant thorough knowledge and experience on risk and risk management. The Chairperson 
of the Risk Oversight Committee, Atty. Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto is a certified Compliance & Risk Management 
Professional under the GRC Institute of Australia.
The Risk Oversight Committee is supported in its function by Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Marilou P. Plando, 
who has over 24 years of comprehensive experience and achievements in manufacturing, business process 
outsourcing (BPO), legal administration, risk management and retail operations. Prior to CLI, she was 
connected with Julie’s Bakeshop Group as Operations Director. She was previously connected with Aboitiz 
Equity Ventures, Inc. for 7.5 years as Assistant Vice President (AVP) for Enterprise Risk Management and 
AVP for Legal Business operations. 
The CLI Board has a fully functioning RPT Committee tasked with reviewing all material related-party 
transactions of CLI to ensure that these are conducted at arm’s-length basis and on terms not more 
favorable than those made to unrelated third parties under similar circumstances. 
CLI’s RPT Committee undertakes quarterly review and evaluation of CLI’s related-party transactions. 
Management presents the various RPTs either for information (if not breaching the threshold) or for 
approval (if breaching the RPT thresholds), which are then endorsed for ratification and/or approval by 
the Board.
For the 2021-2022 term, CLI’s RPT Committee is composed of four (4) qualified non-executive directors, 
three (3) of whom, including the Chairperson, are independent directors. Rufino Luis T. Manotok, the 
Chairperson of the CLI RPT Committee, is not the Chairman/Chairperson of the CLI Board or of any 
other committee.RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTION COMMITTEEThe Nomination Committee is responsible for the nomination and vetting of prospective nominee 
directors for the CLI Board. The Nomination Committee enforces and implements CLI’s formal and 
transparent nomination and election policy, which includes criteria in selecting new directors and 
nomination from shareholders.
The nomination and election process includes the review and evaluation of the qualifications of all persons 
nominated to the Board, including whether candidates: (1) possess the knowledge, skills, experience, and 
particularly in the case of non-executive directors, independence of mind given their responsibilities to the 
Board and in light of the entity’s business and risk profile; (2) have a record of integrity and good repute; 
(3) have sufficient time to carry out their responsibilities; and (4) have the ability to promote a smooth 
interaction between and among Board members. Only a stockholder of record entitled to notice and to vote 
at the regular or special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors shall be qualified to be 
nominated and elected as a director of the company.
For the 2021-2022 term, the Nomination Committee is composed of three (3) qualified directors, including 
the Lead Independent Director, Mr. Rufino Luis T. Manotok, as the Chairperson.
CLI has a formal compliance function in place. This is subject to regular review and evaluation as 
spearheaded by a Compliance Officer. 
 
CLI, through its Compliance Officer, monitors, reviews, evaluates, and ensures the compliance by its officers 
and directors with relevant laws, the pertinent Corporate Governance Codes, rules and regulations and 
all governance issuances of regulatory agencies. The compliance function also ensures the attendance of 
Board members and key officers in relevant training.
During its organizational meeting on 28 May 2021, the Board re-elected Atty. John Edmar G. Garde, CCO as 
CLI’s Compliance Officer. In keeping with SEC Memorandum Circular No. 19, series of 2016 and pertinent 
issuances, Atty. Garde is not a member of the Board and is different from the Corporate Secretary. He is 
primarily liable to the Company and its shareholders, and not to its Chairman or President. Prior to joining 
CLI as Legal Counsel-Corporate Finance, Atty. Garde, 33, served as Manager/Director for Business Tax 
Services of SGV & Co./Ernst & Young-Philippines where he assisted domestic and multinational clients 
in various industries, including real estate, hospitality, business process outsourcing, manufacturing, 
semiconductor, export, and entities registered with Investment Promotion Agencies such as PEZA and BOI. 
His areas and fields of practice include taxation (tax advisory services; tax advocacy services; taxation law), 
investment promotions and incentives law, corporate law and services, and legal and corporate compliance. 
He graduated cum laude from the University of San Carlos (Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting) 
and received his law degree from the same university. Atty. Garde is also a Certified Compliance Officer 
(CCO), having garnered the highest rating and certificate of excellence during the 2021 Certification Course 
for Compliance Officers organized by the Center for Global Best Practices (CGBP). He is not related within 
the fourth civil degree either by consanguinity or affinity to any of the directors or officers of CLI. He 
attended various corporate governance training during FY2021.NOMINATION COMMITTEE
COMPLIANCE OFFICERDISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY
Beyond Compliance
 162 163
integrated report 2021The CLI Board is assisted by a Corporate 
Secretary and an assistant, who are both separate 
individuals from the Compliance Officer. The 
Corporate Secretary and Assistant Corporate 
Secretary are not members of the CLI Board. 
Materials for Board and Committee meetings are 
distributed by the Secretariat to the directors 
and respective committee members prior to 
the meeting date. CLI uses the Diligent Board 
books which allows each director and committee 
member to access and review the meeting 
materials online through a secure portal.
During its organizational meeting on 28 May 2021, 
the Board re-elected Atty. Alan C. Fontanosa as 
CLI’s Corporate Secretary. Atty. Fontanosa is 
the partner-in-charge and Cebu Branch Head 
of SyCip Salazar Hernandez & Gatmaitan. His 
areas of practice include industrial relations and 
labor litigation, civil and land cases, real estate 
transactions, corporate services, and special 
projects. He graduated magna cum laude from the 
University of San Carlos (A.B.) and received his 
law degree from the same university, cum laude. 
He is not related within the fourth civil degree 
either by consanguinity or affinity to any of the 
directors or officers of CLI.CORPORATE SECRETARYthe “Report of Independent Auditors to Accompany 
Supplemental Information Required by the SEC 
filed separately from the basic Consolidated 
Financial Statements”. The aforementioned Report, 
including the CLI Group’s map, are attached to 
the Annual Report (SEC Form 17-A). There are no 
imbalances between the controlling shareholders’ 
voting power and overall equity position in CLI. 
Each holder of CLI shares is entitled to one (1) 
vote for every share in accordance with Section 7, 
Article III of CLI’s By-laws, as amended. 
CLI discloses the trading of its shares by directors, 
key officers, and controlling shareholders. CLI 
also discloses the shareholdings of directors, 
management, and Top 100 shareholders. CLI also 
discloses purchase of its shares from the market 
pursuant to its share buy-back program.The CLI Board has existing corporate disclosure 
policies and procedures in accordance with best 
practices and regulatory expectations.  
 
All material information about CLI that could 
adversely affect its viability or the interests of its 
stockholders and other stakeholders are publicly 
and timely disclosed. Such information includes, 
among others, earnings results, acquisition or 
disposition of material assets, off balance sheet 
transactions, related-party transactions, and direct 
and indirect remuneration of members of the 
Board and Management. All such information is 
disclosed through CLI’s PSE EDGE portal and/or 
submitted to the SEC. 
 
The Board is committed at all times to fully 
disclose material information such as any 
dealings in CLI’s shares and any material fact or 
event that occurs, particularly on the acquisition 
or disposal of significant assets, as well as 
material nonfinancial and sustainability issues. 
All required information are filed and submitted 
through CLI’s PSE EDGE portal and/or submitted 
to the SEC for the interest of its stockholders and 
other stakeholders. 
CLI maintains a comprehensive and cost-efficient 
communication channel for disseminating relevant 
information. This includes the conduct of quarterly 
briefings for investors, analysts, and media by 
teleconference and/or videoconference or through 
actual face-to-face meetings. For FY2021, and 
considering the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, 
all briefings were conducted via video conference. 
CLI regularly engages the media through press 
conferences, briefings, news releases, tours, 
and social events. CLI’s CEO, COO, CFO, and/or 
other senior managers conduct meetings with 
institutional investors and analysts through pre-
arranged seminars or conferences. CLI conducts 
regular investors, analysts and media tours to 
show the progress of its properties. CLI publishes 
regular e-newsletters to update analysts on its 
progress and performance. Annual, quarterly, and 
current reporting are uploaded to CLI’s website 
and its PSE EDGE portal.
CLI discloses in its annual report (SEC Form 
17-A) the ownership interests of its controlling 
shareholders and degree of ownership 
concentration. The CLI Group’s map, detailing 
the cross holdings among company affiliates and 
showing the relationship between CLI and its 
related entities, is included as an attachment in CLI’s Assistant Corporate Secretary is Atty. Larri-Nil 
G. Veloso. Atty. Veloso is also CLI’s Vice-President 
for Legal and has been leading CLI’s legal team 
for more than eight (8) years. An experienced 
practitioner in Corporate Law, he holds a Bachelor 
of Arts in Mass Communication from the University 
of the Philippines and earned his Bachelor of 
Laws from the University of Southern Philippines 
Foundation. While finishing law school, Atty. 
Veloso worked for print and online newspapers, 
occupying various positions in progression 
from correspondent, staff reporter, copy editor, 
copywriter, junior editor, group editor, to managing 
editor. Prior to CLI, he was the Corporate 
Legal Counsel of InfoWeapons Corporation, an 
American-owned software company specializing in 
networking appliances, and later promoted as its 
general manager. He is not related within the fourth 
civil degree either by consanguinity or affinity to 
any of the directors or officers of CLI.
CLI’s Corporate Secretary and Asst. Corporate 
Secretary both attended corporate governance 
training during FY2021.Beyond Compliance
 164 165
integrated report 2021CLI’s whistle-blowing policy is in place to 
strengthen the internal feedback mechanism of the 
company, especially in reporting suspected fraud, 
unethical practices, and other improper activities. 
CLI’s Whistle-Blowing Policy allows employees to 
have direct access to an independent member of 
the Board or to the designated Whistle-Blowing 
Officer appointed by the Board and Management.
 
CLI ensures the protection of all whistle-blowers 
from retaliation or retribution. Anyone who CLI directors devote sufficient time and attention in 
properly and effectively performing their respective 
duties and functions. As such, CLI directors attended 
and actively participated in all meetings of the Board, 
Committees, and shareholders in person or through 
tele-/video conferencing conducted in accordance 
with SEC rules and regulations. Meetings conducted 
through teleconferencing and/or videoconferencing 
are properly recorded with appropriate tapes, discs, 
and/or other recording materials which are properly 
stored for safekeeping, in addition to the secretariat 
of the meeting maintaining written minutes.
Materials for CLI Board and Committee meetings 
are distributed to directors and committee 
members prior to meeting date. CLI uses the 
WHISTLEBLOWING POLICYCY2021 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP,MEETINGS, AND ATTENDANCE
Through its Internal Audit (IA) Department, 
CLI maintains a “Quality Assurance and 
Improvement Program” that covers all aspects 
of the IA Department. The program includes an 
evaluation of the IA Department’s conformance 
with the standards and an evaluation of 
whether internal auditors apply the Institute 
of Internal Auditors’ (IIA) Code of Ethics. 
The program also assesses the efficiency 
and effectiveness of the IA Department and 
identifies opportunities for improvement.  
 
The Audit Committee, through the IA Department, 
regularly reviews and evaluates the adequacy and 
effectiveness of CLI’s internal control system.
For FY2021, CLI’s Head of the Internal Audit 
Department is the ex officio Chief Audit Executive 
in the person of Marjorie Jane C. Sistual. She 
has more than fifteen (15) years of internal audit 
experience. She previously worked in Waterfront 
Cebu City Hotel & Casino with five (5) chain 
of hotels in various parts of the Philippines, 
wherein she headed the Corporate Internal 
Audit Department (CIAD) and focused on fraud INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS
and compliance audit. She also joined Moore 
Stephens Ltd in Singapore for more than ten 
(10) years where she was involved in internal 
audit, consultancy, risk management and SOX 
engagements. She has experience in a wide 
range of industries including hotels, shipping, oil 
& gas, real estate, engineering, semiconductor, 
manufacturing, insurance, logistics, hospitals, non-
profit organization, plantations & mill, trading & 
distribution and retailing. Prior to CLI, she worked 
in Agusan Plantations, Inc. and was involved in 
the internal audit of the four (4) operating units of 
palm oil plantations and mills, mainly for exporting 
of palm kernel oil and crude palm oil products.
 
The responsibilities of the Chief Audit Executive 
or the Internal Audit (IA) Head are contained and 
stipulated in the IA Charter.
The CLI Board regularly conducts review of its 
material controls, including operational, financial, 
and compliance controls, and risk management 
systems. The CLI Board and its Audit Committee 
affirm that the Company has adequate internal 
control and risk management systems.
retaliates against a whistle-blower who reports 
an event in good faith is subjected to appropriate 
disciplinary action. The policy also allows a 
whistleblower to report anonymously.  In all cases, 
the identity of the whistleblower, if known, shall 
remain confidential, unless the issue requires 
investigation by law enforcement and/or the 
revelation of his identity is absolutely necessary. 
The CLI Board and Management have overall 
responsibility for the company’s whistle-blowing policy.MEETINGS ATTENDED
MEETINGS ATTENDED
MEETINGS ATTENDEDMEETINGS ATTENDED
MEETINGS ATTENDEDMEETINGS ATTENDED
Board of Directors
Jose R. Soberano III
Ma. Rosario B. Soberano
Jose Franco B. Soberano
Beauregard Grant L. Cheng
Joanna Marie S. Bergundthal
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia
Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto
Stephen A. TanAudit Committee
Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto
Stephen A. Tan
Risk Oversight 
Committee
Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia
Stephen A. Tan
Nomination Committee
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Jose R. Soberano III
Ma. Rosario B. SoberanoCorporate Governance 
Committee
Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia
Stephen A. Tan
Related Party 
Transactions (RPT) 
Committee
Rufino Luis T. Manotok
Ma. Jasmine S. Oporto
Ma. Aurora D. Geotina-Garcia
Stephen A. TanPosition
Chairman
Member
Member
Member
Member
Lead Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive DirectorPosition
Chairperson
Member
Member
Member
Position
Chairperson
Member
Member
Member
Position
Chairperson
Member
MemberPosition
Chairperson
Member
Member
Member
Position
Chairperson
Member
Member
Member7
4
44
167 of 7
4 of 4
4 of 44 of 4
1 of 16 of 6Diligent Board books which allows each director 
and committee member to access and review the 
meeting materials online through a secure portal.
In keeping with its duties to act responsibly and 
judiciously, CLI directors, before deciding on any 
matter brought to the Board, carefully evaluate the 
issues, make inquiries, and request clarification and 
apply high ethical standards, taking into account the 
interest of stakeholders. CLI does not have shareholder 
agreements, by-law provisions, or other arrangements 
that constrain the directors’ ability to vote independently. 
The following is a summary of the Board and 
Committee membership, meetings and attendance 
for the calendar year 2021:Beyond Compliance
 166 167
integrated report 2021DIRECTORS AND
KEY OFFICERSSEMINAR / TRAINING DATE ORGANIZER
05 March 2021
23 July 2021
20 August 2021
27 August 2021
27 September 202123 July 2021
18 August 2021
20 August 2021
25 August 2021
27 August 2021
14 May 2021
09 July 2021
18 August 2021
20 August 2021
25 August 2021
27 August 2021March 03-05, 2021
March 11, 18 & 25, 
2021
23 July 2021
18 August 2021
20 August 2021
25 August 2021
27 August 2021Institute of Corporate 
Directors
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative 
Association of Bank 
Compliance Officers, 
Inc.Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Institute of Corporate 
Directors
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting InitiativeInstitute of Corporate 
Directors
Institute of Corporate 
Directors
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting InitiativeAnnual Corporate 
Governance Training
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Environmental Impact 
Management
The Philippines’ 
FATF Journey: From 
Technical Compliance 
to EffectivenessAnti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Updates and Guidance 
on Sustainability 
Reporting for 
Philippine PLCs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Human Capital and 
Work Environment
Environmental Impact 
Management
Risk Management in 
the Age of COVID-19
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Updates and Guidance 
on Sustainability 
Reporting for 
Philippine PLCs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Human Capital and 
Work Environment
Environmental Impact 
ManagementGRI Sustainability 
Strategy and 
Reporting
Distinguished 
Corporate Governance 
Speaker Series
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Updates and Guidance 
on Sustainability 
Reporting for 
Philippine PLCs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Human Capital and 
Work Environment
Environmental Impact 
ManagementRufino Luis T. ManotokAtty. Ma. Jasmine 
S. Oporto
Ma. Aurora D. 
Geotina-GarciaStephen A. Tan2021 ATTENDANCE OF DIRECTORS AND KEY OFFICERS IN 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SEMINARS AND TRAININGDIRECTORS AND
KEY OFFICERSSEMINAR / TRAINING DATE ORGANIZERBeyond Compliance
 168 169
integrated report 202123 July 2021
27 August 2021
23 July 2021
20 August 2021
25 August 202123 July 2021
20 August 2021
23 July 2021
18 August 202123 July 2021Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting InitiativeAnti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting InitiativeAnti-Money 
Laundering CouncilAnti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Environmental Impact 
Management
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Human Capital and 
Work EnvironmentAnti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Updates and Guidance 
on Sustainability 
Reporting for 
Philippine PLCsAnti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPsJose R. Soberano III
Joanna Marie S. 
BergundthalMa. Rosario B. 
Soberano
Beauregard Grant
L. ChengJose Franco B. 
Soberano27 August 2021
23 July 2021
27 August 2021
June 24-25, June 28-29, July 06, 
09, 15, 19, and 27, 2021
April 21-23, 2021
19 March 2021
23 February 2021
20 April 2021
08 March 2021
18 August 2021
20 August 2021
25 August 2021
27 August 2021
30 September 2021Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Center for Global Best 
Practices
Center for Global Best 
Practices
Securities and 
Exchange Commission
Cebu Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry; 
P&A Grant Thornton
SGV & Co.
Anti-Money 
Laundering Council
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative
Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Global 
Reporting Initiative 
Securities and 
Exchange CommissionEnvironmental Impact 
Management
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Environmental Impact 
Management
9-day Compliance Officer 
Certification Course
Best Practices in 
Corporate Housekeeping
SEC Reportorial 
Requirements
CREATE in Focus: Salient 
Provisions of CREATE
Thrive Amidst a BIR 
Audit: A Survival Guide
Anti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPs
Updates and Guidance 
on Sustainability 
Reporting for 
Philippine PLCs
Corporate Governance 
and Leadership
Human Capital and 
Work Environment
Environmental Impact 
Management
Beneficial Ownership 
Transparency in the 
PhilippinesAtty. Alan
C. Fontanosa
(Corporate Secretary)
Atty. Larri-Nil
G. Veloso
(Asst. Corporate 
Secretary)
Atty. John Edmar G. 
Garde
(Compliance Officer)
23 July 2021 Anti-Money 
Laundering CouncilAnti-Money 
Laundering / Counter-
Terrorism Financing 
Webinar for DNFBPsAtty. Alan
C. Fontanosa
(Corporate Secretary)DIRECTORS AND
KEY OFFICERSSEMINAR / TRAINING DATE ORGANIZERDIRECTORS AND
KEY OFFICERSSEMINAR / TRAINING DATE ORGANIZERBeyond Compliance
 170 171
integrated report 2021ENTERPRISE RISK 
MANAGEMENT
CLI views risk management as a critical component of its business operations at the strategic and tactical 
level.  The directors and executives recognized that being better informed of and prepared for risk 
events would lead to more effective decision-making and value creation. CLI’s Risk Management process 
was formalized in 2021 through the ISO 31000 framework. With the goal of involving everyone in the 
management of risks at all levels in the organization, CLI’s risk management is described as Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM). With ERM, every member of the CLI organization is encouraged and/or expected 
to anticipate and mitigate the risks in their area of responsibility. CLI’s ERM scope also extends to the 
company’s network of suppliers, contractors, communities and other stakeholders that contribute to the 
achievement of the organization‘s goals and objectives. 
Recognizing that risk management is a shared responsibility across the organization, CLI gathered the executives, 
department heads, and managers to a two-day risk management workshop in 2021 to kick off the Risk Aware 
Culture program. The activity emphasized that risk management should be woven into the normal routines, 
activities and behaviors of every member of the organization, from boardroom to basement. The two-day 
exercises sought to get the commitment and leadership of the management team of the risks in their respective 
areas, and collectively establish policies and procedures that embed risk management for the organization.  
 
From the executive level Risk Aware Culture kick-off, a series of trainings were conducted to all supervisors 
and officers to ensure that risk management is applied at the operational or tactical level. This risk awareness 
is intended to encourage the integration and execution of policies and procedures in day to day activities while 
mindful that there are potential new risks that might negatively or positively impact their operations. The group 
is also expected to help cascade risk management to staff members to embrace the shared knowledge culture.
CLI entrusted the oversight of risk management to the Board of Directors through the Risk Oversight 
Committee.  This Committee is led by an Independent Director who regularly reviews the risk management 
program and ensures the operationalization of CLI’s risk management framework.  
 
The Risk Management Head reports to the Committee all the activity updates of the approved risk 
management program as well as any proposal for improvement, implementation, and maintenance of the 
enterprise risk management roadmap. The Internal Audit Team supports the ERM Team by conducting 
regular assessment audits on the effectiveness of the risk mitigation measures identified by the risk owners 
and provides an independent view on the adequacy, effectiveness, and efficiency of the risk management 
process across the organization.A JOURNEY TO A RISK-AWARE CULTURE
MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT TO RISK MANAGEMENT
RISK GOVERNANCEBeyond Compliance
 172 173
integrated report 2021CLI has a three-year roadmap that demonstrates its goal of embedding a robust risk management process 
to support its fast paced, market driven business environment.  To achieve organizational resilience, the 
roadmap covers three (3) important programs: 
 
• Develop a risk-aware culture. CLI’s Risk Management Team promotes the integration of risk 
management and quality management systems to allow teams to see where risks connect to their 
process and identify what those risks are. Continuous training and awareness programs are put in 
place to ensure that teams understand that processes at every level have a direct bearing on the 
organization’s risk exposure. Building this mindset gives the organization an assurance that business 
processes are not siloed and risks are managed at the operational and enterprise level.
• Establish business continuity. With CLI’s nature of business and the Philippines’ unpredictable weather 
conditions, a business continuity plan is an important aspect to CLI’s business operations. The Company 
takes people safety with utmost importance and plans for environmental and man-made events like 
earthquake, typhoons, and fire are set at the highest priority.  Aside from these events,  IT systems 
issues and cyber attacks are also in the company’s radar as the Company manages voluminous 
information from its day to day transactions.
• Implement Information Security Management System. With the geographical expansion in Visayas and 
Mindanao and the growing reliance on digital technology to connect across different offices, customers 
and external networks, CLI recognizes the significant business impact of information security and cyber 
risk to the organization.  It is for this reason that Information Security is identified as one of CLIs top 
ten risks and much focus on information security processes and technology innovations is given by 
the executives at present.  Much has yet to be done for the protection measures on the organization’s 
“crown jewels” and systems availability and understanding the ever-changing threat landscape for 
inevitable information security incidents. The teams involved are constantly keeping abreast of the 
latest developments in this area to ensure that relevant risks are identified, and mitigations are in place 
and monitored for effectiveness.CLI’s executives conducted an assessment on its existing risk appetite and fine-tuned the definitions of 
non-negotiable risks considering the Company’s values, culture and objectives. The Board approved the 
recommended limits of each five major areas of risk – financial, operational, compliance, environmental 
and reputational. Each risk attached to the risk appetite is monitored and tracked, any potential breach is 
reported to the executives for further assessment and action. On a quarterly basis, the Risk Management 
Team reports to the Risk Oversight Committee for updates and other risk management activities.
Like any business, CLI went through a rigorous strategic-resilience test brought about by the COVID-19 
pandemic. Guided by its core values of agility, integrity, leadership, commitment, collaboration, and 
customer first,  the Company stepped up to the challenge and kept itself one step ahead by rapidly adapting 
its strategies to address the challenges, risks and the opportunities created by the crisis.
 
One of CLI’s risk strategies was to adopt a business-model innovation that focuses on new digital 
experiences and services, this include virtual project launches, virtual tours, virtual Homefest, on-line 
reservation and online payments, virtual turnover among others in response to changes in customer 
behaviors and needs. This digital transformation also includes online meetings (in lieu of the traditional 
face to face meeting), acceleration of digitalization of reports and cross functional digital collaborations 
as a way to enhance business efficiency while protecting employees and continued service to customers, 
communities and extended networks.
 
CLI leaders understand that to be a resilient organization, breaking down communication barriers and siloes 
from department to department is crucial to building a risk-aware culture. With CLI ERM roadmap to a 
risk-aware organization, the Company endeavors to develop the mindset, provide the skillset and toolset to 
empower and equip each team member to recognize and act on anything perceived as risk or opportunity. 
CLI’s goal is to institutionalize a proactive risk management approach at the operational and enterprise level 
to mitigate the risks that matter and seize the opportunities that generate more value to the organization.RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGYCLI’S RISK APPETITE DEFINITION
RISK MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL RESILIENCE FUEL 
CONSUMPTION,
IN LMANAGED
PROPERTIES
FOR GENERATOR SETS LEASED AREAS COMMON AREASPOWER CONSUMPTION, 
IN KWH
7. Mivesa Garden
Residences***
8. Casa Mira Towers 
Labangon
9. MesaVerte Residences
10. MesaTierra Garden 
Residences***
11. Villa Casita Bogo****
12. Villa Casita Balamban**
13. San Jose Maria Village 
Balamban**
14. San Jose Maria Village 
Talisay
15. San Jose Maria Village 
Minglanilla
16. San Jose Maria Village 
Toledo**
17. Casa Mira South
18. Casa Mira Linao
19. Velmiro Heights**
20. Midori PlainsAPPENDICES
  1,605,946.25
      
1,462,583.80
          79,891.18
      n/a
  
        344,732.00
         404,342.95
1,339,928.40
         800,187.12
         181,728.67
4,775.52
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
NA
               157.61
NA
NA38,875.00
18,002.00
10,350.28
9,952.00
480.00
6,674.00
23,574.46
5,816.46
2,000.00
200.00
0
108.00
351.00
648.00
513.00
729.00
792.00
1,233.00
668.00         723,894.75
         248,669.20
         207,628.82
          58,776.00
          85,348.00
         118,521.05
272,628.03
         286,096.51
         247,896.33
115,117.08
            2,944.00
            1,380.00
3,544.36
No data
          33,829.09
No data
          44,848.06
          33,829.09
24,954.09-2019 2020 2021
184,790.50
(71%)
22,965.00
(9%)
-
46,128.00
(18%)
6,841.00
(3%)
-
Not recorded268,707.00
(99.7%)
-
-
-
732.30
(0.03%)
n/a
n/a321,683.50
(69%)
33,044.60
(7%)
33,658.91
(7%)
59,406.00
(13%)
9,394.98
(2%)
4,761.00
(1%)
5,026.00
(1%)Cebu Offices
Davao Main – Paragon*
Davao Main – MesaTierra*
38 Park Avenue Showroom
Dumaguete Satellite Office
Ormoc Satellite Office
 
Bohol Sales OfficeScope and Percentage Breakdown:
Electricity consumption at Corporate/Satellite Offices and Showrooms, in kWh
*Estimated using annualized figures
Data from Iloilo, Bacolod offices not recorded
Data from CDO office covered under MesaVerteENERGY CONSUMPTION
*Estimated consumption of 5 properties based on annualized figures and reported data
**Estimated consumption of 11 properties based on annualized figures
***recorded under construction data 1. Base Line Center
2. Park Centrale
3. Latitude Corporate 
Center***
4. Asia Premier Residences
5. Base Line Residences
6. Midori ResidencesScope and Breakdown: Fuel and electricity consumption in managed properties 
Appendices
 174 175
integrated report 20211. Base Line Center n/a 19,235.28 25,065.72 44,301.00
2. Park Centrale n/a 11,049.00 4,913.00 15,962.00
3. Latitude Corporate Center** n/a 307.68 6,072.32 6,380.00
4. Asia Premier Residences n/a 4,140.80 3,134.20 7,275.00
5. Base Line Residences** n/a 6,820.00 430.67 7,250.67-
6. Midori Residences n/a 8,374.00 2,420.00 10,794.00
7. Mivesa Garden Residences n/a 41,172.89 31,796.67 72,969.56
8. Casa Mira Towers Labangon n/a 2,669.00 15,805.17 18,474.17
9. MesaVerte Residences n/a 4,758.00 6,674.00 11,432.00
10. MesaTierra Garden 
Residences**n/a 2,330.00 254.50 2,584.50
11. Villa Casita Bogo No data n/a n/a n/a
12. Villa Casita Balamban* 22,556.40n/a n/a n/a
13. San Jose Maria Village
Balamban* n/a n/a n/a
14. San Jose Maria Village Talisay 15,983.75 n/a n/a n/a
15. San Jose Maria Village
MinglanillaNo datan/a n/a n/a
16. San Jose Maria Village Toledo* 59,650.25n/a n/a n/a
17. Casa Mira South* 199,230.55 n/a n/a n/a
18. Casa Mira Linao 97,185.00 n/a n/a n/a
19. Velmiro Heights** 59,650.25n/a n/a n/a
20. Midori Plains 70,693.00 n/a n/a n/a1. Abaca Hotel 15,000.00 -
2. Astra Centre 23,229.00 304,088.00
3. Banilad High Street 3,357.00 314.00
4. Casa Mira Towers – Mandaue 75,543.00 132,660.00
5. Mandtra Residences 2,070.00 12.00
6. Mivela Garden Residences No data 399.00
7. Villa Casita Bogo 0 No data
8. 38 Park Avenue 19,569.00 404,944.00
9. Base Line Center – Prestige 4,066.00 187,100.00
10. Casa Mira Linao Ph3 50,180.00 5,418.00
11. Casa Mira South Ph3A and Ph3B 157,674.00 105,240.00
12. Casa Mira Towers Guadalupe 7,200.00 n/a
13. Latitude Corporate Center 9,520.00 32,368.00
14. Lorega Tenement Housing 3,805.00 n/a
15. Magspeak Nature Park 68,000.00 n/a
16. Masters Tower Cebu 40,083.00 n/a
17. Patria de Cebu 2,555.00 8,687.00
18. Velmiro Heights Minglanilla 3,685.00 3,750.00
19. Casa Mira Bacolod 83,440.00 25,288.00
20. Casa Mira Coast No data No data 
21. Casa Mira Homes Dumaguete No data No data 
22. Casa Mira Homes Ormoc 78,300.00 8,106.00
23. Casa Mira Iloilo 157,850.00 53,150.00
24. Citadines Bacolod  No data 117,147.00
25. Mesavirre Garden Residences No data 204,960.00
26. Terranza Residences 39,861.00 1,038.00
27. Velmiro Greens Bohol 33,582.00 29,147.00
28. Velmiro Plains Bacolod 96,146.00 18,034.00
29. Casa Mira Towers CDO 33,355.00 67,318.00
30. Casa Mira Towers LPU 181,200.00 54,326.00
31. Davao Global Township 89,122.00 180,420.00
32. MesaTierra Gardens Residences 7,534.00 305,953.00
33. The Paragon Davao No data No data
34. Velmiro Heights CDO No data No data
35. Velmiro Uptown CDO No data 103,434.00FUEL 
CONSUMPTION,
IN L
FOR GENERATOR SETS COMMON AREASLEASED
AREASSUB-TOTALCOMMON 
AREASPOWER CONSUMPTION, 
IN KWHTHIRD PARTY WATER PROVIDER**Scope and Breakdown: Fuel and electricity consumption in construction sites 
Scope and Breakdown: Water consumption in managed properties
CONSTRUCTION
SITES MANAGED
PROPERTIESGROUND 
WATER *
*Applicable only to horizontal properties/residential subdivisions, except Velmiro Heights. Water consumption of 4 properties is 
estimated based on annualized figures.
**Applicable only to mixed use, office buildings, and vertical properties/condominiums, including Velmiro Heights and 3 vertical 
properties  which use estimates based on annualized figures.WATER AND EFFLUENTS
Appendices
 176 177
integrated report 20211. Abaca Hotel 448.00
2. Astra Centre 2,790.00
3. Banilad High Street No data
4. Casa Mira Towers – Mandaue 2,705.00
5. Mandtra Residences 127.00
6. Mivela Garden Residences 1,960.00
7. Villa Casita Bogo No data
8. 38 Park Avenue 5,781.00
9. Base Line Center – Prestige 2,215.00
10. Casa Mira Linao Ph3 No data
11. Casa Mira South Ph3A and Ph3B 18,150.00
12. Casa Mira Towers Guadalupe 145.00
13. Latitude Corporate Center 3,427.00
14. Lorega Tenement Housing 122.80
15. Magspeak Nature Park No data
16. Masters Tower Cebu 365.00
17. Patria de Cebu 920.00
18. Velmiro Heights Minglanilla 294.00
19. Casa Mira Bacolod 2,199.00
20. Casa Mira Coast No data
21. Casa Mira Homes Dumaguete No data
22. Casa Mira Homes Ormoc 4,164,00
23. Casa Mira Iloilo 5,884.00
24. Citadines Bacolod 3,053.00
25. Mesavirre Garden Residences 7,200.00
26. Terranza Residences No data
27. Velmiro Greens Bohol 6,804.00
28. Velmiro Plains Bacolod 1,445.00
29. Casa Mira Towers CDO 2,084.00
30. Casa Mira Towers LPU 162.00
31. Davao Global Township 497.00
32. MesaTierra Gardens Residences 7,948.00
33. The Paragon Davao No data
34. Velmiro Heights CDO No data
35. Velmiro Uptown CDO 365,1455.001. Base Line Center 35,440.80
2. Park Centrale 12,769.60
3. Latitude Corporate Center 5,104.00
4. Asia Premier Residences 5,820.00
6. Midori Residences 8,635.20
7. Mivesa Garden Residences 58,375.64
8. Casa Mira Towers Labangon 14,779.34
9. MesaVerte Residences 9,145.60
10. MesaTierra Garden Residences 2,067.60CONSTRUCTION SITES MANAGED PROPERTIESMCWD / THIRD PARTY 
WATER PROVIDER, IN CU. M.WASTEWATER TREATED 
AND DISCHARGED, IN CU.M.Scope and Breakdown: Water consumption in construction sites Scope and Breakdown: Wastewater treated and discharged in managed properties
Appendices
 178 179
integrated report 2021SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
1. Base Line Center 109,017.00
2. Park Centrale 800.00
3. Latitude Corporate Center 2,840.00
4. Asia Premier Residences 500.00
5. Base Line Residences 450.00
6. Midori Residences 1,620.00
7. Mivesa Garden Residences 35,222.60
8. Casa Mira Towers Labangon No Data
9. MesaVerte Residences 3,600.00
10. MesaTierra Garden ResidencesNo Data
11. Villa Casita Bogo No Data
12. Villa Casita Balamban
186,000.00
13. San Jose Maria Village Balamban
14. San Jose Maria Village Talisay No Data
15. San Jose Maria Village Minglanilla No Data
16. San Jose Maria Village Toledo* No Data
17. Casa Mira South No Data
18. Casa Mira Linao 576,000.00
19. Velmiro Heights No Data
20. Midori Plains No Data1. Abaca Hotel 1,310.00 No data
2. Astra Centre 389.60 7.00
3. Banilad High Street  No data No data
4. Casa Mira Towers – Mandaue 300.00 64.00
5. Mandtra Residences 804.00 No data
6. Mivela Garden Residences 2,040.00 67.00
7. Villa Casita Bogo No data No data
8. 38 Park Avenue 314.00 139.00
9. Base Line Center – Prestige 271.00 78.00
10. Casa Mira Linao Ph3 17,461.00 17,460.00
11. Casa Mira South Ph3A and Ph3B No data No data
12. Casa Mira Towers Guadalupe No data No data
13. Latitude Corporate Center 190.00 19.00
14. Lorega Tenement Housing 20.00  0
15. Magspeak Nature Park No data No data
16. Masters Tower Cebu 1,149.00 0
17. Patria de Cebu 51.00 5.00
18. Velmiro Heights Minglanilla 4,673.00 4,672.00
19. Casa Mira Bacolod 144.00 0
20. Casa Mira Coast No data No data
21. Casa Mira Homes Dumaguete No data No data
22. Casa Mira Homes Ormoc 2.00 0
23. Casa Mira Iloilo No data No data
24. Citadines Bacolod No data No data
25. Mesavirre Garden Residences No data No data
26. Terranza Residences 36.00 19.00
27. Velmiro Greens Bohol No data No data
28. Velmiro Plains Bacolod 96.00 0
29. Casa Mira Towers CDO 1,851.00 1,530.00
30. Casa Mira Towers LPU No data No data
31. Davao Global Township 82.00 32.00
32. MesaTierra Gardens Residences 172.00 No data
33. The Paragon Davao 111.00 No data
34. Velmiro Heights CDO No data No data
35. Velmiro Uptown CDO 6,990.00 6,030.00MANAGED PROPERTIESTOTAL SOLID WASTE GENERATED
IN KILOGRAMSScope and Breakdown: Solid waste generated in managed propertiesScope and Breakdown: Solid waste generated in construction sites
IN KILOGRAMS IN KILOGRAMSTOTAL SOLID 
WASTE GENERATEDTOTAL WASTE
RECYCLED/REUSED CONSTRUCTION
SITES
Appendices
 180 181
integrated report 2021GHG EMISSIONS
ENERGY INTENSITY65.00 98.63 112.88
Managed Properties
(# of properties with data)322.81
(19 of 20 / 95%)4.45
(10 of 20 / 50%)1.81
(19 of 20 / 95%)
Construction Sites
(# of projects with data)3,441.77
(26 of 35 / 74%)Not applicable1.72
(25 of 35 / 69%)
Total 3,764.59 4.45 3.542019* 2020* 2020*Disclosure:  Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) / Scope 1 Emissions - Corporate / Satellite Offices and 
Showrooms, in MTCO2e
Disclosure:  Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) / Scope 1 Emissions - Corporate / Satellite Offices and 
Showrooms, in MTCO2e*Used emission factor (EF) from World Resources Institute’s GHG Emission Factors 2017 where EF for transport fuel use (gasoline): 
8.598734991 kgCO2 per US gallon and 1 liter = 0.2641720 US gallon
DIRECT GHG 
EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 1)*OTHER INDIRECT 
GHG EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 3)**INDIRECT
GHG EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 2)**
USE OF FUEL FOR
GENERATOR SETSLEASED AREAS COMMON AREASSOURCES OF 
GHG EMISSIONS
*Used emission factor (EF) from World Resources Institute’s GHG Emission Factors 2017 where EF for stationary combustion of gas/
diesel oil is 2.676492 kgCO2 per liter of fuel
***Based on DOE National Grid Emission Factors 2017                    
●   Luzon-Visayas grid - 0.7122 kgCO2 per MWh where 1 KWh = 0.001 MWh
●   Mindanao grid - 0.7797 kgCO2 per MWh
DIRECT GHG 
EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 1)*EMISSION INTENSITIES
OTHER INDIRECT 
GHG EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 3)**INDIRECT
GHG EMISSIONS 
(SCOPE 2)**
USE OF FUEL FOR
GENERATOR SETSLEASED AREAS COMMON AREASSOURCES OF 
GHG EMISSIONS
Overall Average          0.0010 0.000011  0.000051STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
CUSTOMERS:
Sellers / Buyers Virtual / Digital 
Channels: 
Facebook pages 
Online Reservation 
Process
Group Chats
Buy-A-Home mi-
crosite to provide 
sales partners 
quick access to 
new project inven-
tories and promo-
tions;
Masters Portal 
application for 
homeowners to 
track their pay-
ment status and to 
get CLI construc -
tion updates and 
promos; and
Facebook chatbot 
for 24/7 response 
to general inqui-
ries.
Online Reservation 
Process
CLI Elite Circle: 
Buyers’ Rewards & 
Loyalty Program
Online Homefest
Flagship Sales Of -
fice Opening & New 
Features: Digital /
Queuing System, 
Ticketing General 
Queries Counter, 
Interactive screens  
Virtual Launches/
Events
Virtual Turn over 
Experience
Dedicated Hotline 
and Email 
AddressesSafety and ease 
in the conduct of 
sales transactions; 
strict compliance 
with pandemic-re-
lated protocols
Safety features of 
products
Product differentia-
tion across brands 
that has impact on 
pricing
Time- bound re-
sponse to inquiries 
Time-bound 
issuance of 
commissions and 
resolution of other 
concerns (sellers)
Ease in entering 
building premises 
for unit viewing 
(sellers) 
Accuracy and time-
liness of custom-
er’s records (SOA, 
BS and Receipts) 
provided within an 
acceptable turn-
around timeContinuing re-
wards/ loyalty 
incentives 
Full automation 
of IT systems in 
order to provide 
real-time status 
of customers’ 
accountsPromotional offers, 
and various pay-
ment terms and 
discounts
Customer feed-
back is captured 
through the 
following channels: 
Online platforms: 
sellers’ portals, 
chat groups, email 
blasts, social 
media sites, 
customer care, 
exhibits, site trips, 
online turn over; 
dedicated hotline 
and email 
addresses  
Online Homefest
Flagship sales 
office opening & 
new Features: 
Digital/queuing 
system, Ticketing 
general queries 
counter, interactive 
screens  
Product knowledge 
seminars 
CLI Elite Circle: 
Buyers’ Rewards & 
Loyalty Program
On-time issuance 
of commissions for 
sellers
Improving sell-
er competency 
through seminar 
series  CHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTEXPRESSED 
NEEDSINTEREST
AREASHOW WE
RESPONDSTAKEHOLDER
Stakeholder Engagement
 182 183
integrated report 2021CUSTOMERS:
End users of 
products:  Home 
Owners Associ-
ations / Condo 
Corporations Annual General 
Meetings 
Board meetings, 
unit inspections
Virtual / Digital 
Channels: 
Facebook pages 
Group ChatsEase in transacting 
payments (monthly 
dues) 
Efficiency of 
utilities / water & 
power supply
Timeliness in 
release of Transfer 
Certificate of Titles 
(TCTs), Tax Decla-
rations and other 
documentsUpkeep and 
maintenance of 
propertyRegular engage-
ment with HOAs 
through AGMs 
Time-bound re-
sponse to concerns 
/ complaints 
Time-bound 
issuance of billing 
statements and 
other documents
CUSTOMERS: 
Office and Retail 
space lessees/ end 
users of leased 
productsVirtual/digital 
channels: 
Facebook pageOn-time completion 
of construction of 
leasing products
On-time turnover 
of office / retail 
space (for fit out)
Time- bound re-
sponse to inquiries, 
complaints and 
release of bill-
ings (utilities and 
monthly charges) 
Safety 
Reliable mainte-
nance of utilities 
(i.e. water and 
electricity)Disaster readiness 
and response
Future partner-
ships and collabo-
rationRegular coordi-
nation and gath-
ering of feedback 
through CLI Prop-
erty Management 
JV PARTNERS Formal and casual 
meetings; project 
site visits 
EmailsReturn on 
InvestmentDevelopment 
TimelinesCompleteness in 
finance updates 
during board 
meetingsREGULATORS: 
SEC, PSE, BIR, DH-
SUD, AMLC (among 
other government 
agencies and
regulators)
Compliance with 
regulatory require-
ments and serve 
as trusted partner 
to assure all stake-
holders of CLI’s 
exemplary corpo-
rate governanceInquiries and 
correspondence by 
and between CLI 
and the various 
government regu-
lators, whether in 
person (meetings; 
dialogues) or in 
writing (e-mails; 
formal letter corre-
spondence). 
Discussions and 
coordination with 
IPA regulators 
for registration of 
projects and avail-
ment of fiscal and 
non-fiscal incen-
tives.
Attendance and 
participation in 
government-initi-
ated trainings and 
seminars. 
Submission of re-
ports, disclosures 
and other docu-
mentary require-
ments. Integrity and 
accuracy of docu-
mentary submis-
sions, reports, and 
disclosures.
Submission of 
reportorial re-
quirements within 
the deadline and 
through the proper 
modes or channels 
set by the regula-
tors (various gov-
ernment portals; 
e-mails; hard copy 
submissions).
Coordination and 
cooperation with 
the government 
regulators in case 
of inquiries or con-
duct of government 
audits.
Compliance with 
all relevant laws 
and regulations. Beyond compliance 
on economic, social 
and environmental 
regulations/
disclosure 
requirements Proactive and ex -
tensive monitoring, 
review, evaluation, 
and compliance 
with all the rele-
vant laws, rules 
and regulations, 
and government 
issuances of regu-
latory agencies. 
CLI, its directors 
and key officers 
continue to keep 
themselves 
abreast of relevant 
laws, regulations, 
and industry 
developments. In 
keeping thereto, 
CLI adheres to its 
training policy and 
program, including 
the attendance of 
directors and key 
officers in annual 
corporate gover-
nance training.
CLI ensures the 
proper review 
and evaluation of 
information and 
documents before 
submission to 
regulators. 
CLI ensures the 
faithful, transpar-
ent, and timely 
submission of 
disclosures and re-
ports to the appro-
priate government 
regulators. CHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTCHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTEXPRESSED 
NEEDSEXPRESSED 
NEEDSINTEREST
AREASINTEREST
AREASHOW WE
RESPONDHOW WE
RESPONDSTAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER
Stakeholder Engagement
 184 185
integrated report 2021Close coordination 
and cooperation 
with the regula-
tors, ensuring open 
lines of communi-
cation, and timeli-
ness in responding 
to their request 
for documents and 
information. CLI 
emphasizes that it 
will continue to be 
an exemplary cor-
porate citizen and 
trusted partner of 
the government 
and the society in 
general.
INDIVIDUAL / 
INSTITUTIONAL 
SHAREHOLDERS/
INVESTORS
Protect the inter-
ests of
shareholders by 
increasing share-
holder value; con-
tinue our position 
as an excellent 
investment vehicleShareholder inqui-
ries and updates 
through
PSE EDGE filings 
for real time disclo-
sures, “Maestro” 
newsletter for 
monthly updates, 
investor engage-
ments through 
one-on-one meet-
ings, non-deal local 
and international 
roadshows, report 
of company per-
formance through 
quarterly analyst 
briefings, stock-
holders’ meetings 
and annual reportsKnowledge on 
company financial 
and operational 
performance and 
updates
Increased invest-
ment opportunities
Future returnsFinancial and op-
erational perfor-
mance and updates
Market price ap-
preciation
Dividends
ESG performance 
CLI’s sustainabil-
ity commitment 
and management 
approach Transparency 
in performance 
updates and future 
plans
Ensuring sustain-
able company 
growth and expan-
sion
Growing share-
holder value
Declaration of 
dividends
Communication 
of Environmental, 
Social and Gov-
ernance (ESG) 
/ sustainability 
performance GOVERNMENT: 
LGUs and national 
government
agenciesProperty visits for 
inspection by gov-
ernment officers.
Visits to govern-
ment offices for 
submission of com-
pliance require-
ments.
Payment of taxes, 
business permits 
and licenses, 
partnerships/
co-sponsored 
events, and regular 
reviews; neighbor-
ing communities 
as partners and/or 
beneficiaries to the 
company’s devel-
opment programs. Raising public 
awareness on rele-
vant environmental 
and socio-econom-
ic issues
Collaboration with 
the private sec -
tor on social and 
environmental 
programs for the 
community Job opportunities 
to constituents and 
local residents. 
Partnership and 
collaboration on 
social and environ-
mental programs 
for the various 
communities. 
Guidance on rel-
evant real estate 
processes, e.g., 
technical planning, 
design and prop-
erty management 
(for MRB tenement 
projects) 
Venue for civic 
interactionPrompt and accu-
rate payment of 
taxes and regulato-
ry fees. 
Provision of access 
/ road repair to ba-
rangays impacted 
by development.
Attendance and 
active participation 
in LGU-organized 
meetings and con-
ferences.
Regular coordina-
tion and continuing 
engagement with 
the government.
EMPLOYEES: 
CLI’s important 
resource to achieve 
the Company’s 
goalsTownhall meetings, 
Training programs
 
Employee engage-
ment activities
Gender-targeted 
programs 
Employee volun-
teer program
Email blasts
Workplace posts / 
chatsAdequate compen-
sation and benefits, 
Health and 
Well-being pro-
grams
HMO benefits pack-
age upgrade 
Training and orga-
nizational develop-
ment 
Flexible work 
arrangements Wellness and 
work-life balance
Personal and 
corporate sustain-
ability Benefits upgrade
Pay increase 
Wellness program 
(Hilig Clubs)
Relaunch of ‘Hilig’ 
Clubs
Training and orga-
nizational develop-
ment programs
Health and safety 
programs
Introduction of the 
concept of sus-
tainability through 
learning sessions
EMPLOYEES: 
Indirect hires (em-
ployees of contrac -
tors)Assistance of con-
struction workforce 
through contrac -
tors during the 
pandemicSafety and mini-
mal exposure at 
the height of the 
pandemic Continuing re-
sponse/ assistance 
in cases of disas-
tersAssistance to 
workers and their 
families during the 
pandemic; resourc -
es allocated for 
stay-in workersCHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTCHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTEXPRESSED 
NEEDSEXPRESSED 
NEEDSINTEREST
AREASINTEREST
AREASHOW WE
RESPONDHOW WE
RESPONDSTAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER
Stakeholder Engagement
 186 187
integrated report 2021SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORSSupplier/Contrac -
tor accreditation 
process, bidding & 
negotiation, award-
ing or ordering, 
and billing processSuppliers: 
Timely release of 
payments as per 
agreed terms
Contractors:  Con-
cern on cash flow 
vis a vis schedule 
of payments 
 
Continuing employ-
ment
Health and safetySuppliers:
Equality and fair 
bidding process
Equal opportunities 
for local contrac -
tors
Identify and de-
velop sustainable 
water sources
Resource conser-
vationEnhancement on 
the billing process 
Enhancement of 
supplier /contrac -
tor selection and 
evaluation process
 
MEDIA PARTNERS
Means of 
Promoting CLI’s 
brand, image and 
reputationConduct of press 
conferences, 
Corporate briefings Sufficient informa-
tion about CLI’s 
projects /product 
brands
Availability of com-
pany representa-
tives for interview 
Usefulness of in-
formation shared
Open communica-
tion linesIssues-handling
PublicityMedia briefings/ 
regular updates on 
new projects and 
developments
LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES: 
host, partner or 
neighboring baran-
gaysPandemic and 
disaster response 
Public hearing /
consultations 
Community needs 
assessment  
Program partner-
ships on environ-
ment, employment, 
education, capacity 
building, arts and 
culture 
 
Meetings / site 
visitsLocal employment
Concerns on 
access 
Livelihood pro-
grams
Environmental 
programs
Skills training 
program
Supporting 
products of small 
entrepreneurs in 
the locality 
 Increase in 
barangay income 
through barangay 
permitsProgram partner-
ships 
Guidance on social 
preparation and 
property manage-
ment 
Implementation 
of community 
programs on edu-
cation, emergency 
and disaster read-
iness, livelihood 
and social prepa-
ration for bene-
ficiaries of MRB 
tenement project 
donated by CLI to 
partner LGUProvision or re-
pairs of roads and 
drainage system
Partnerships with 
LGUs on various 
community pro-
grams that address 
community needs 
Local employment 
prioritizationCHANNELS OF 
ENGAGEMENTEXPRESSED 
NEEDSINTEREST
AREASHOW WE
RESPONDSTAKEHOLDER
Stakeholder Engagement
 188 189
integrated report 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
Punongbayan & Araullo  
20th Floor, Tower 1  
The Enterprise Center  
6766 Ayala Avenue  
1200 Makati City  
Philippines  
 
T +63 2 8988 2288  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a  
    
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
Offices in Cavite, Cebu, Davao   
BOA/ PRC Cert of Reg. No. 0002  
SEC Accreditation No. 0002   grantthornton.com.ph  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Auditors  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders  
Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and Subsidiaries  
(A Subsidiary of A B Soberano Holdings Corp.)  
10th Floor, Park Centrale Tower  
Jose Ma. Del Mar St., B2 L3  
Cebu I.T. Park, Brgy., Apas  
Cebu City  
 
 
Opinion  
 
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and 
subsidiaries (collectively referred to herein as the Group), which comprise the consolidated 
statements of financial positi on as at December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the consolidated 
statements of profit or loss, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated 
statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the 
three years in t he period ended December 31, 2021, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2021 and 2020, 
and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in accordance with Phi lippine Financial 
Reporting Standards (PFRS) , as modified by the application of the financial reporting reliefs 
issued and approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and described in 
Note 2 to the financial statements.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with Philippine Standards on Auditing (PSA).  Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements  section o f our report.  We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in the 
Philippines (Code of Ethics) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our 
audits of the consolidated financial state ments in the Philippines, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics.  We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our o pinion.  
 
  
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
  
 
 
- 2 - 
 
 
 Emphasis of Matter  
 
We draw attention to Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial statements, which indicates that the 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with PFRS, as modified 
by the financial reporting reliefs issued and approved by the SEC. The qualitative impact of the 
financial reporting reliefs on the  consolidated  financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 to the 
financial statements.  Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
 
Key Aud it Matters  
 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most 
significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period.  These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the cons olidated financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters.  
 
(a) Revenue Recognition for Real Estate  Sales  
 
Description of the Matter  
 
We considered the Group’s recognition of revenue from real estate sales  a key audit matter 
because of the significant volume of transactions and amount of revenue from real estate sale s 
involved.  In 202 1, the Group’s revenue from  real estate  sales amounted to P11.0 billion  which 
accounts for 9 9% of the Group’s total revenues.  It uses the percentage of completion (POC) 
method, which is determined using the input method, i.e., based on efforts or inputs to the 
satisfaction of a performance obligation, to determine the appropriate amount of contract 
revenues to be recognized for the reporting period.  Thus, the complexity of the application of 
the revenue recognition standard in real estate sales co ntracts; and the application of 
significant management judgments in determining when to recognize revenue, particularly on 
the assessment of the probability of collecting the contract price, and in estimating the stage of 
project completion were also taken  into consideration.  An error in the application of the 
requirements of said standard, and of management judgment and estimate could cause a 
material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements.  
 
For this year’s audit, we have also considered the implications of the COVID -19 pandemic as it 
affects a major factor in the Group ’s revenue recognition criteria which is the probability of 
collecting the contract price.  
 
The Group’s accounting policy on recognition of revenue from real estate  sales, and basis of 
significant judgment and estimates are disclosed in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial 
statements, respectively.  In addition, the details of cont ract revenues, specifically the 
disaggregation of revenues are disclosed in Notes 17 to the consolidated financial statements.  
 
How the Matter was Addressed in the Audit  
 
To address the risk of material misstatements in revenue recognition, we have perform ed tests 
of design and operating effectiveness of internal controls, including information technology (IT) 
general controls, over processes relating to generation of contract revenue, and revenue 
recognition and measurement.   In addition, we reviewed  sales  agreements, on a sampling 
basis, and the relevant facts and circumstances about the real estate transactions to determine 
compliance with a set of criteria for revenue recognition.  We have also tested the 
reasonableness of management’s judgment in determ ining the probability of collection of the 
contract price which involves a historical analysis of customer payment pattern and behavior.  
 
  Financial Statements
 190 191
integrated report 2021Financial Statements
 192 193
integrated report 2021
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
  
 
 
- 3 - 
 
 
 To ascertain the reasonableness of the measurement of progress towards complete 
satisfaction of performance obligation using the input method, we have tested the progress 
reported for the year in reference to the actual costs incurred relative to the total budgeted 
project development costs.  Our procedures include understanding of controls over reco rding of 
costs and direct examination of supporting documents.  We have also performed physical 
inspection of selected projects under development to determine if the completion based on 
costs is consistent with the physical completion of the project.  In t esting the reasonableness of 
budgetary estimates, we have ascertained the qualification of project engineers who prepared 
the budgets and reviewed the actual performance of completed projects with reference to their 
budgeted costs.  
 
(b) Existence and Valuati on of Real Estate Inventories  
 
Description of the Matter  
 
Real estate inventories amount to P1 8.7 billion, which accounts for 51% of total current assets 
and 28 % of total assets of the Group, as at December 31, 202 1.  Because of the asset’s 
material effect on the consolidated financial statements, we considered its valuation a key audit 
matter. Valuation of the Group’s real estate inventories, particularly construction -in-progress, 
involves determination and estimati on of significant unbilled materials and project contractors’ 
services at the end of the reporting period.  Management’s failure to consider such unbilled 
materials and services, and an error in estimating the same, could have a material impact on 
the carr ying value of real estate inventories as well as POC and cost of real estate sales.  
 
The valuation of the real estate inventories is also hinged on their existence. Given that the 
Group’s real estate projects are located in various locations, which posed a significant 
challenge in conducting the necessary audit procedures because of restrictions due to the 
COVID -19 pandemic, and the varying stages of completion of the projects, which require 
significant judgement and estimation, we have also considered the  existence of real estate 
inventories as a key audit matter.  
 
The Group’s policy on accounting for real estate inventories is disclosed in Notes 2 and 3  
to the consolidated financial statements and an analysis of the assets’ components is 
presented in No te 7. 
 
How the Matter was Addressed in the Audit  
 
We have obtained an understanding, and performed tests of design and operating 
effectiveness of internal controls, including IT general controls, over processes relating to 
initiation and recording of purch ases and allocation of cost to real estate inventories.  We also 
performed ocular inspection of selected real estate projects on a date closest to the  end of the  
reporting period  to confirm their existence and examined documents, such as land titles, 
progress reports, contractors’ accomplishment billings among others, to corroborate with other 
procedures as well as to ensure completeness of recorded costs.  We tested the assumptions 
used by management in estimating the unbilled materials and services as  well as the stage of 
completion of the projects which we used to further assess the reasonableness of the assets’ 
valuation.  
 
  
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
  
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
 (c) Recognition of Right -of-Use Asset s and Related Lease Liabilit ies 
 
Description of the Matter  
 
As at December 31, 202 1, the Group recognized a right -of-use asset s and lease liabilities of 
P1.2 billion and P1.1 billion, respectively.   This pertains to various  lease contract s for period s 
ranging from three to 4 2 years covering land  and office space  which will be the site of real 
estate project of the Group.  We considered the recognition of the right -of-use asset s and lease 
liabilit ies for th ese lease s as significant because of the amount involved, complexity of 
accounting for this type of lease and  the significant judgements that go along with it, particularly 
in respect of the determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used because of the lease 
term.  
 
The Group’s accounting policy and judgment applied on accounting for leases are present ed in  
Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, respectively, and the other related 
disclosures are presented in Note 12.  
 
How the Matter was Addressed in the Audit  
 
To address this matter, we evaluated the reasonableness and appropriaten ess of the inputs 
and assumptions used, especially the discount rate applied in determining the lease liability. 
We verified the accuracy of the data used by tracing them to the original contracts and checked 
the mathematical accuracy of the calculations d one by management to determine the amounts 
to be recognized.  We also assessed the completeness of disclosures within the consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with the applicable standards.  
 
Other Information  
 
Management is responsible for the other information.  The other information comprises the 
information included in the Group’s Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 20 -IS 
(Definitive Information Statement), SEC Form 17 -A and Annual Report for the ye ar ended 
December 31, 202 1, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditors’ report thereon.  The SEC Form 20 -IS (Definitive Information Statement), SEC Form 
17-A and Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 202 1 are expect ed to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditors’ report.  
 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and 
we will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our audi ts of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to 
read the other information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audits, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated.  
 
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the 
Consolidated Financial Statements  
 
Management is responsible for the preparation  and fair presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with PFRS, as mo dified  by the application of the financial 
reporting reliefs issued and approved by the SEC , and for such internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
 
  Financial Statements
 194 195
integrated report 2021
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
  
 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
 In preparing the consolidated financial statemen ts, management is responsible for assessing the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Gr oup or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting 
process.  
 
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Stateme nts 
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.  Reasonabl e assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with PSA will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists.  Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individu ally or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected 
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.  
 
As part of an audit in accordance with PSA, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit.  We also:  
 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due  to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.  The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  
 
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing 
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.  
 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estima tes and related disclosures made by management.  
 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions t hat may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.  If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the 
consolidated financial sta tements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion.  Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditors’ report.  However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a goi ng concern.  
 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure  and content of the consolidated financial 
statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
 
• Obtain sufficient appropriat e audit evidence regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements.  We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the group aud it.  We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.  
 
  
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
 -6-
 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies i n internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our i ndependence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.  
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of 
thecurrent period and are therefore the key audit matters.  We describe these matters in our 
auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to 
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
The engagement partner on the audits resulting in this independent auditors’ report is
Mailene Sigue -Bisnar .
PUNONGBAYAN & ARAULLO  
By: Mailene Sigue -Bisnar
Partner
CPA Reg. No. 0090230
TIN 120 -319-128
PTR No. 8852327, January 3, 2022, Makati City
SEC Group A Accreditation
Partner -No. 90230 -SEC (until Dec. 31, 2025)
Firm -No. 0002 (until Dec. 31, 2024)
BIR AN 08 -002511 -020-2020 (until Dec. 21, 2023)
Firm’s BOA/PRC Cert. of Reg. No. 0002 (until Aug. 27, 2024)
March 29, 202 2
 
Financial Statements
 196 197
integrated report 2021
  

   
   
   
   
   
     
   
  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  

   
   
   
    
     
      
  

   
   
   
     
   
  
  

 
  
  
      
      
  
 
   
  
  








   
 
   
    
    
     
  
         
    
        
      
   
          
     

          

      
             
    
         
   

   
     
  

          


 

     
      
            
              

          
                  
            
                   
                    
           

          
                   
            
              
              

          
                  
                 
                  

           
           
          

          
                   
            
              
              

          
                  
                   
                    
           

          
              
         
              


 
Financial Statements
 198 199
integrated report 2021  
   




       
          
        
   

   
   
  




Financial Statements
 200 201
integrated report 2021




   

   

     
    
    
          
       
     
         
   
      
      
       
         
       
       
   
     
      
           
       
            
        

       
          
        
          
          
     
     
      
      

    
       
       
          
    
          
        
             
   
       
   
   








 

 

            

 
 
 


 
           
 

 
 

 
 

 
                       
 

 
 


 

 

  
   
         


        
      
        
         
        
        
        
        
       

Financial Statements
 202 203
integrated report 2021 


  
   
         


        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        


        
        

 
 



 
 
 


 
        
        


  
 
 


  
 
 
 

  
 


  
            
 
 

  
 

  


  
 


  
           
 


             
 
 

  
 
 


  
 
 
 

 
 
 


  
 
 


              
 

 
 
 
 


  
          


  
 
 

  
          
 
 
Financial Statements
 204 205
integrated report 2021 


  
 
 

  

 
 
 



 

 
 
 

  

  

 
 
 
 
 
          

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
           
 

  



  
           
 


 
 
 
 

   


























 

 

 

 

 






















 Financial Statements
 206 207
integrated report 2021 


   


 



































 

 
          
 


 
           
 
 
  

 

 
 


           
 


  


 

 

 
 

 
    


    




 

  
       
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 


  
   
 
 
 
 

 
 


 

          

        
 
 

  
 

  
Financial Statements
 208 209
integrated report 2021 


   
 

         
       


  
 

   

  
 

  
  

          
 

   
          
 
 

  

 
 


          
         
 
 

         
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 


  


  
  

 
            

 
 
 
 


  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

            
 

 


  
 

  

 
 
 

 

  
          

 
 
 


 
 Financial Statements
 210 211
integrated report 2021 


 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


          
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
        
            
 


 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
           



          
 
 
 
             
 
 
           
 


 

 
 


 


 
          
          
 
 
          
 
 
 


 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Financial Statements
 212 213
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 
           
 
 

 


 
 
 


 
            
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 

  
 


 
 
 

 
 


  


 


 

 

  
 
  
 

   

 
 
 
 

 


  
 


  
 

 
 
 
           
 


           
 
 
 


 
 



 
 
         
 

Financial Statements
 214 215
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 
 
           
 


  

 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 


 

 
            
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 

 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
           


 
        
 

  

 
 
           
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
Financial Statements
 216 217
integrated report 2021 


 


 
 


          
 


 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 


 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           


 

 
 
 
 

 

         
 
 
 
 


 
 
 

            
 
 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 


 
 


 

 
 
 

 
 
 
           


 


  
  
  
  

 
Financial Statements
 218 219
integrated report 2021 


 


 
 


 
           


           
 


 
 
 
 
 


 

         
 
 
 


 
 
            
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 
 
 


 

 
 


 

 
 
 
  
 

 


  

  

  

 
 Financial Statements
 220 221
integrated report 2021 


  

 
 
 


 

  

  

  
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


           
           
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
 
  

   
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
             


 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 
 

           
 
 
 

          



 Financial Statements
 222 223
integrated report 2021 


 



 


 
 
 


  
 


  
 
 

  
 


 
 
 
 
 
            
          
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
             


 
 
 
  


 
 


 

 
 



 

         
 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 

 
 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Financial Statements
 224 225
integrated report 2021 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


 

           

 

 

           
 
 
 


 

 
 
 

 
 



 
 
 
 
          
 

 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 


 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Financial Statements
 226 227
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 


          
 


 
  
 



 
 


 

 

 
 

 


          


            
 
 
              


 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 


 
 
 


 

          
 
 



 Financial Statements
 228 229
integrated report 2021 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 

  

 




  
  

 
  


 


 
 
 
           
 



 

  

           
 
 
 
 
          
 

 

 
 
 
 


 

          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

           
          
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Financial Statements
 230 231
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 
 

 


  

 
 
 
 


  


 
 

 
            
 


  

 
 
           
 


 
 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 







  


  

            
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 
 
 
          
 
 

 
 
 


 
 


 

 
 
 


 Financial Statements
 232 233
integrated report 2021 


 


 
 


  

 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 


  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 


  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
  


  


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 

 
 
 
          
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

  

 
 
         
 
 
 


 
           
 
 

 Financial Statements
 234 235
integrated report 2021 


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 



 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 


 

            
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 




  


 

          
 
  

    
                 
                           

  
                        
                        

                          

  
    
                           
      
                        
                        

                         

  
    
                         
                            
               
 
                      

  
                     
 
  
                     
                        

    
                   
                           

  
                          
                        

                        

  
    
                          
    
                      
                     
                           

                         

  
    
                            
                         
                       
                       
 
                       

  
                     
 Financial Statements
 236 237
integrated report 2021 


    
                   
                           

 
                      
                      

   
                   
                           

  
                          
                          

                        

  
    
     
                         
    
     
                          
                          
                       

                          

  
    
                            
                           
     
                            
    
     
                        
                       
 
                      

  
                       

 
 


 


  


 

 


         

   
         
  
          

  
          

 
        

            
          
        
          


              

 

   
         
  
      


      


      
          
  
      
 

      


 

 

      

       
      
      

    

 Financial Statements
 238 239
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 
 

 
          
 



 



       

  
     
    
         
        
        
        
       
  
        
        
     
        

  

          


     

   
      

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 

 
 
 

 


 
           
 
 


       

       
        

      


 

 

      

       
        
     

  
        
         
        
     

      

  

 

Financial Statements
 240 241
integrated report 2021 


 
 

 


 


 
 
            
 
 


 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 



  


 

 
 
 


      

    
     
       

       

 



 



      

     
        
      
       
       
       
       

  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

              
 
 

 


 Financial Statements
 242 243
integrated report 2021 


 

 


     

       
       
       
      

       

 


              

  
  
             
            
            
            

  
   
  
           
  
            
            
            

           

 


                

  
  
              
           
            

  
   
  
             
  
            
           

         


 


 

 
 


      

        
        

       

        
           

        

        
 
          

       
          
 
       


 


      

        
 
         
   
         
 
        

        
  
 

 
 

 
 
 


Financial Statements
 244 245
integrated report 2021 


 

 
 

    
    

     

 
             


 
     
     
    
  

 
      
    
    
    
    
  

    

          
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 


     
      

     

     
      

      


       

         

       
         

        

 
 

    

    
 
     
 
     
 
     

    

 

 
 

      

        
        

        

       
          

        

         

       
           

        

 
 

 Financial Statements
 246 247
integrated report 2021 


      

        
 
         
 
         
 
        

        
 
 
 


 


 

 
 

                
                



           
 
  
               

 
               



           
 
  
              

 
            


          
 
  
              

 
              

 


                
                


 
 
 
            
            
                     
               

 
              


 
 
 
              

                
  


                  


 
 
 
            
           
                

 
              


 
 
 
            


 
 
 
            
            
              

 
              


 
 
 
            

 


 
 
 


 
 
          


 
 
            
 

 
            



 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Financial Statements
 248 249
integrated report 2021 


            
 
 
 


 
 

               
              
               
                      

                           
                        

 

 
 

        

 
  
       
        
         
         

 
      
          
          

 
         

 
 
       
         
         
         

 
       
          
          

 
         

 
 
 
 


 


 



      

      
      

     
  
 
 
 


 

 

 
 

                                                      
                                                       

 
                             
                

                    


                              
                  

                       

 

 
 
              
 
           
 
            


  

 
 
 
 
 



 Financial Statements
 250 251
integrated report 2021 


 

 
 
 


               
                  

 
           
                  

              


             
                  

             

 
             
                
 
             

 


               
                  


  
             
               
              
                 

 
  
              

 
  
              
                 
               
                 

 
  
            

 
  
               
               
                  
                 

 
  
               

 
 
 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
 
 


 


          

   
        
         
        
        
   
      

 
         
          
          

       

 
 

 
 
            
 
           
 

          
 
          



 



      

        
       
  
   
         
       
       
      

    Financial Statements
 252 253
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 

 
 

      

 
      
       
      
 
       
       
      

    

 

 


      

       
      
       
      

       

  


 
 
 

      

    
     
    

      


 
 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 

 
 
          
 
 
 


 

 
           
       


       

    
     
    
       

    

 Financial Statements
 254 255
integrated report 2021 




              
               

            
             
             
 
           
              
          
           
               

               

      
              
       
             

             



         
            

         

       
             
            

             

           
           

             

              
              
             

             

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
         
 

 


 
 
 



            
 
             
 
 



 



      

  
      
      
        
         
        
        
        
  
         
        
    

   
        
       
       
      

   

 



 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 Financial Statements
 256 257
integrated report 2021 






 


 

 
              
 

           
            

 
      
         
        

 
            

 
            

 
           

     

           
            

 
       
          
         

 
            

 
            

 
          

    

           
           

 
       
          
         

 
            

 
            

 
           

     

  


 



      

    
      

     

 

      

     
  
         
       
      

      

 
 

 
 
 
 

      

     
    

    

 

      

      
 
       
 
  
       

      

 
 
 
 
 
 Financial Statements
 258 259
integrated report 2021 


 
 


  

 
 
 


      

    
        

   


 

 

         

   
      
         
        
         
        

 
        
          
        

 
          
           
       
   
         
          
         
        
         
         

     


  


 

 

          

      
         
         
 
        
        
       
  
         
         
         
         
         
  
          
 
          
      
         
         
         
 
          
         

         
         
        
         

    



         

     
          

    


 Financial Statements
 260 261
integrated report 2021 


 

 



         

         
         
         
 
           
         
         
         
       
 
         
       
        
         
        
        
         
         

       

             


 
 


 
 
 


 


 



         

         
         
         

       
 


 
           



 



         

 
   
         
          
  
   
         

       

 



 



         

       
 
      
          
       

      


 

 

 

         

 
         
 
         

         

 Financial Statements
 262 263
integrated report 2021 


 

 


 
 

 


 
 
 
            
 
 


  

 
 
 


 
 

      

      
       

    

 
 

      

       
      
       
    
     
 
  
        
        
       

        
 


 

      

       
        
      
       
 
     

        

 
 

      

       
      
       
       

    

 



 
 
 


 
 

         


        
 
       

       

 
 
  
         
         
          
 
  
        

      Financial Statements
 264 265
integrated report 2021 


 


 
 

 
 

         

     
     

 
 
 
 
 
         
 


 

 


 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 


 

          
 
 

  


 

           
         


  
         
         

  

      
      

 

       
       

          
       
 

 
 
 
 


 
 
 
        





 

 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 


 

 
Financial Statements
 266 267
integrated report 2021 


 


      

     
     
      

    

 



 

  
  
 


  

  

  


 
 
            
 


 
 
 


 
 
 
 


  


 


         


  
   
          
   
        
   
             
             
           
        

  
   
   
          
   
            
           

         


  
  
 
       
 
         

       

 
 

         

         
 
         
 
          
 
           
          
  
           

        

 Financial Statements
 268 269
integrated report 2021 


 

      

 
  
   
      
     
     
       
     
  
      

 
     
      
      
      
  
       

      

       

 

      
     
                 


 
  
                
               
 
              
             
             

              
              
           
              
 
                 

               

 
 
 
 
 
 
                   

              
              
               

            

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 

 
         
 
 

    
               


                


 
           


          


 
                
                  

 
 
 
 



 Financial Statements
 270 271
integrated report 2021 


 


 

  
   
          

       
          
         

         


         
          

           

 
 


 

 
 
 
            
 

 

           
 
 
 
 


 

 


         

        
        

      

  


 

           
 
 
 



 

 

 


      
           

 
            

 
          

  
             
               

            

  
          
          

          

           

 
 
           
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Statements
 272 273
integrated report 2021 



       



 
 
 
 

 
 


  

 

 


      
            

            
           

              

 
 

 

 
 


 


 
 
          
 
 


 
 
 
 

  


 

 
 


            

         
 
  
   
          
         
       

        

 

 

 
 


 
           


 
 


 

 

        
            


         
         
 
          
 
          
           
         
          
           

            

          

 Financial Statements
 274 275
integrated report 2021 


 

          
             

 
         
         
  
           
  
           
            
           
           
          

             

         

           
           
       
 
 
 


 
 

  
 


  
 


           
 
 


         
 


         
 


  


 
 
 
          
 
 

 

 
 

  
 
 


  
 
 
 

 
        
 

  
 
 

           
 
 


          
          
 


 
            


 Financial Statements
 276 277
integrated report 2021 


 

 


       
            

           
             
             
            
             
              
            
                
             
              
               
             
                 

            

 


         

      
        
       
         

     

  
 
           
 
 
 

  
 

           
 


 

 
 

         

  
  


 
 

      

      
      

     

       
       

       

      

      
        

       

 

      

      
       

     

 


      

     
       

     

     
       

     
 
      

      
        

        

 Financial Statements
 278 279
integrated report 2021 


 

      

      
       

       

 
 

      

    
       

    

     
       

     

       

       
       

      

 

      

        
       

       

 
 

      

    
      

   

     
      

    


      

     

     
        

       

 

      

      
      

       

 
 

      

    
       

    

      
       

    

      

      
         

       

 

      

      
      

     

 Financial Statements
 280 281
integrated report 2021 


 
 

      

     
       

      

       
        

       

      

      
        

       

 

      

      
      

      

 
 

      

      
       

    

      
       

     

      

      
         

       

  


 

      

      
      

       

         
 

     
      

    

     
      

     

      

      
          

      

 

     
      

      

 
 

      

      
       

      

      
       

      

       

       
           

       Financial Statements
 282 283
integrated report 2021 


 

      

    
     

      

 
 

      

      
       

      

      
       

      

        

       
         

      

 

      

     
     

      

 
 

     
      

     

     
      

     

     

      
          

       


 

     
      

      

 
 

     
      

     

     
      

     

      

      
          

      

 

     
      

      

 
 

     
       

     

     
       

     

      

      
          

      

 Financial Statements
 284 285
integrated report 2021 


 

     
      

      


 



         

 
     
 
   
         

         

 
 



 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 


         

       
 
        
         

         

 
 


  


 

           
 
 
 


 
 


 

 
 
 
 


 

 
 
 


 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 



 


 
 


 Financial Statements
 286 287
integrated report 2021 


 

 
 
 
 
           
 

 
 


 

 
 


 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 


 

 


      

      
      
      
       
       
      

   

 

  



 

            
             
              

   
  
        
        

     
 
 
      
       
        

        

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 

 
 

     

     
      
      
       

    

 

 


 
 

 
 

 Financial Statements
 288 289
integrated report 2021 


    
            
                  

               
   
               
               
              
               
              
              

          

    
            
                  

               
   
                
               
              
               
              

           

 

 
 
 
 



 


      
    
            


          
          

         
 
         
           

        

 

 
 


  


       
 


 

 
 


      
         

 
 
             
          
             
             
             

            

 

       
             

       

 
 

 
 


  

           
 


     
     
     
                
               
                   

 
            

 
                   

 
 
 

    
     
     
         
                
                   

 

                

 
  
               
Financial Statements
 290 291
integrated report 2021 


           
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 




  
 

  
 


  


 
 

 
 
 
 


       
 
 
           
 


 
 
 
 


  


  

 
 
 


    
             


             
             
              
              
              

           


           
             

            

  
   

    
                                 


             
             
              
              

           


           
             

            

  
  

 
 
           


 

   
 


 
 
 

             

 
           

 
            

 Financial Statements
 292 293
integrated report 2021 


             

 
 
           
 
 


 


  

 
 
 



          
 
 
 
 
      
 
 


 

 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 



  


  

 
 
 

 
 


      

   
    

    

 
 
 
 

 

              
 
 



       


 
 

       
     
         

          
 
            
           
   
              
             
             

        



 Financial Statements
 294 295
integrated report 2021 


       
      
         

          
 
           
         
   
               
             
             

          
  
           
 
           
         
   
               
             

          


 

 
 

  
 


  
 


                       
 
 

            
         


           
         
 
 
 

  


 

 

 
 
 
 

  

  
 
  

            

            
 
 

          
 

  
 
        


 
 


 

  

 
  
  
  
 

 
 
 
 
 


 Financial Statements
 296 297
integrated report 2021 


 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Punongbayan & Araullo  
20th Floor, Tower 1  
The Enterprise Center  
6766 Ayala Avenue  
1200 Makati City  
Philippines  
 
T +63 2 8988 2288  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a  
    
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
Offices in Cavite, Cebu, Davao   
BOA/ PRC Cert of Reg. No. 0002  
SEC Accreditation No. 0002   grantthornton.com.ph  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Auditors  
to Accompany Su pplementary  
Information Required by the  
Securities and Exchange Commission  
Filed Separately from the Basic  
Consolidated Financial Statements  
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and Subsidiaries
(A Subsidiary of A B Soberano Holdings Corp.)
10th Floor, Park Centrale Tower
Jose Ma. Del Mar St., B2 L3
Cebu I.T. Park, Brgy., Apas
Cebu City  
We have audited in accordance with Philippine Standards on Auditing, the consolidated 
financial statements of Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Group) for the year ended 
December 31, 2021, on which we have rendered our report dated March 29, 2022.  Our audit 
was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic consolidated financial statements 
taken as a whole.  The applicable supplementary information (see List of Supplementary 
Information) is presented for purposes of additional analysis in compliance with the 
requirements of the Revised Securities Regulation Code Rule 68 and is not a required part of 
the basic financial statements prepared in accordance with Philippine Financial Reporting 
Standards.  Such supplementary information is the responsibility of management.  The 
supplementary information has been subjected to the auditing procedures a pplied in the audit of 
the basic consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material 
respects in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
PUNONGBAYAN & ARAULLO
By: Mailene Sigue -Bisnar
Partner
CPA Reg. No. 0090230
TIN 120 -319-128
PTR No. 8852327, January 3, 2022, Makati City
SEC Group A Accreditation
Partner -No. 90230 -SEC (until Dec. 31, 2025)
Firm -No. 0002 (until Dec. 31, 2024)
BIR AN 08 -002511 -020-2020 (until Dec. 21, 2023)
Firm’s BOA/PRC Cert. of Reg. No. 0002 (until Aug. 27, 2024)
March 29, 2022
 
Financial Statements
 298 299
integrated report 2021
  

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  


 

 









   
   
   
     

  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   

   
     




1
  
 



               
              
             
              
                
            
            

                
                  

           
            
             
                
                  

           
                   
                  
             

              
         
                   
          


  

 

 
 

 
 

2

 

 

             
              
             
              
              
            
              
                
              
            
           
           
                
                     


  



 

 
 
 
3Financial Statements
 300 301
integrated report 2021









       
       
       
      
      
       
      
         
     

      
      
      
      
        
      
      
       
     
     


4





5Financial Statements
 302 303
integrated report 2021










6










 
          

 
     



7Financial Statements
 304 305
integrated report 2021 - 8 -   
 
 
 
  


 


 

 
 
 
 


 


 


 


 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 


 

 


 

 
 
 
 

 


 


 


 


 



 


 




 

Financial Statements
 306 307
integrated report 2021 

  
  

 
 
     

 
  
  
     

 



Financial StatementsGRI Content Index
Financial Statements
 308 309
integrated report 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
Punongbayan & Araullo  
20th Floor, Tower 1  
The Enterprise Center  
6766 Ayala Avenue  
1200 Makati City  
Philippines  
 
T +63 2 8988 2288  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 a  
    
Certified Public Accountants  
Punongbayan & Araullo (P&A) is the Philippine member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd.  
 
Offices in Cavite, Cebu, Davao   
BOA/ PRC Cert of Reg. No. 0002  
SEC Accreditation No. 0002   grantthornton.com.ph  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report of Independent Auditors  
on Components of  
Financial Soundness Indicators  
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and Subsidiaries
(A Subsidiary of A B Soberano Holdings Corp.)
10th Floor, Park Centrale Tower
Jose Ma. Del Mar St., B2 L3
Cebu I.T. Park, Brgy., Apas
Cebu City
   
 
We have audited, in accordance with Philippine Standards on Auditing , the consolidated financial 
statements of Cebu Landmasters, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Group) as at December 31, 2021 and 
2020 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and have issued our 
report thereon dated March 29, 2022. Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion 
on the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.  The Supplementary Schedule on 
Financial Soundness Indicators, including their definitions, formulas, calculation, and their 
approp riateness or usefulness to the intended users, are the responsibility of the Group’s 
management.  These financial soundness indicators are not measures of operating performance 
defined by Philippine Financial Reporting Standards (PFRS) and may not be compa rable to 
similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  This schedule is presented for the purpose 
of complying with the Revised Securities Regulation Code Rule 68 issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, and is not a required part of th e basic consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with PFRS.  The components of these financial soundness indicators have 
been traced to the Group’s consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2021 and 2020 
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 and no material exceptions 
were noted.
 
 
 PUNONGBAYAN & ARAULLO  
 
 
 
   
By: Mailene Sigue -Bisnar
Partner
CPA Reg. No. 0090230
TIN 120 -319-128
PTR No. 8852327, January 3, 2022, Makati City
SEC Group A Accreditation
Partner -No. 90230 -SEC (until Dec. 31, 2025)
Firm -No. 0002 (until Dec. 31, 2024)
BIR AN 08 -002511 -020-2020 (until Dec. 21, 2023)
Firm’s BOA/PRC Cert. of Reg. No. 0002 (until Aug. 27, 2024)
March 29, 2022  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Organizational Profile102-1 Name of the 
Organization - Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
102-2 Activities, brands, 
products and services 6 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
1
102-3 Location of 
headquarters  6 
SEC Form 17A 2021
EESG Report  page 
1
102-4 Location of 
operations  6 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
1
102-5 Ownership and 
legal form  6 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
1
102-6 Markets served   7,29
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
1
102-7 Scale of the 
organization   7 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
2
102-8 Information on 
employees and other 
workers  15GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
Organizational Profile102-9 Supply chain  SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
30-34
102-10 Significant 
changes to the 
organization and its 
supply chain  SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
31
102-11 Precautionary 
Principle or approach  151-153
102-12 External 
initiatives  17-18
102-13 Membership of 
associations SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
2
Strategy102-14 Statement from 
senior decision-maker  20-21
102-15 Key impacts, 
risks, and opportunities 172-173
Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, 
principles, standards, 
and norms of behavior   6,7 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
70
Governance 102-18 Governance 
structure 91 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
70
102-19 Delegating 
authority 91
102-20 Executive-
level responsibility 
for economic, 
environmental, and 
social topics 91
102-28 Evaluating the 
highest governance 
body’s performance SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
75GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI Content Index
 310 311
integrated report 2021GRI 200: (ECONOMIC TOPICS)
Governance 102-30  Effectiveness 
of risk management 
processes  151, 172, 173 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
57
102-32 Highest 
governance body’s 
role in sustainability 
reporting91 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
15
Stakeholder 
engagement 102-40 List of 
stakeholder groups  87
102-41 Collective 
bargaining agreements  SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
57
102-42 Identifying and 
selecting stakeholders87
102-43 Approach to 
stakeholder engagement  86
102-44 Key topics and 
concerns raised  88-89
Reporting practice102-45 Entities included 
in the consolidated 
financial statements Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
Subsidiaries and Associates
102-46 Defining report 
content and topic 
Boundaries  2  
102-47 List of material 
topics 89
102-48 Restatements of 
information-  none
102-49 Changes in 
reporting -  none
102-50 Reporting period  4
102-51 Date of most 
recent report  - Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
First Integrated Report 2021, 
Maestro
102-52 Reporting cycle   4
102-53 Contact point for 
questions regarding the 
report  320
102-54 Claims of 
reporting in accordance 
with the GRI Standards   2  
102-55 GRI content index  310GRI 103: 
Management Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundarySEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
27
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
27
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
27
GRI 201: 
Economic Performance 
2016201-1 Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributed 93
201-2 Financial 
implications and other 
risks and opportunities 
due to climate change SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
28
GRI 202: 
Market Presence 2016  202-1  Ratios of standard 
entry level wage by 
gender compared to 
local minimum wage93
202-2 Proportion of 
senior management 
hired from the local 
community 94
GRI 203: 
Indirect Economic 
Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and 
services supported  95
203-2 Significant indirect 
economic impacts  95
GRI 206: Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions 
for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
33GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of OmissionGRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI Content Index
 312 313
integrated report 2021GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report pages 
44-45
GRI 304: Biodiversity 
2016304-1 Operational 
sites owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent 
to, protected areas 
and areas of high 
biodiversity value 
outside protected areas 126-129
 
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundary121 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
48
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components 121 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
48
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach 121 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
48
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions  121-122
305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG emissions  121-122 
305-3 Other indirect 
(Scope 3) GHG emissions121-122
GRI 306: 
Waste 2020306-1 Waste generation 
and significant waste-
related impacts 120
306-2 Management of 
significant waste-related 
impacts 120 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report pages 
51-52
306-3  Waste generated 120
306-4 Waste diverted 
from disposal 120GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundary98 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
35
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components 98 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
35
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach 98 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
35
GRI 301: Materials 2016301-1 Materials used by 
weight or volume110
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy 
consumption within the 
organization 111-114 
302-2 Energy 
consumption outside of 
the organization114
302-3 Energy intensity 119
GRI 303: 
Water and 
Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions 
with water as a shared 
resource  103
303-2 Management of 
water-discharge related 
impacts SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
44
303-3 Water withdrawal 115-117
303-4 Water discharge 118
303-5 Water 
consumption 115-117 
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundarySEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report pages 
44-45
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report pages 
44-45GRI 300: (ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS)
GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI Content Index
 314 315
integrated report 2021GRI 306: 
Waste 2020306-5 Waste directed to 
disposal SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
54
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 2016307-1 Non-compliance 
with environmental laws 
and regulations129
GRI 401: Employment 
2016401-1 New employee 
hires and employee 
turnover 132
401-2 Benefits provided 
to full-time employees 
that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time 
employees 133-134
GRI 403: 
Occupational Health and 
Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational 
health and safety 
management system135
403-2 Hazard 
identification, risk 
assessment, and 
incident investigation  120 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report  page 
57
403-3 Occupational 
health services 135
403-4 Worker 
participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health and 
safety135
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and 
safety135
403-6 Promotion of 
worker health 135
403-9 Work-related 
injuries 135
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundarySEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
58GRI Standard GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitleDisclosure Number 
and TitlePage PageDirect Answer or 
Statement of OmissionDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI 400: (SOCIAL TOPICS)
GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of OmissionGRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
58
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
58
GRI 404: 
Training 
and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for 
upgrading employee 
skills and transition 
assistance programs 137-138
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career development 
reviews  SEC Form 17A 
2021 
EESG Report page 
59
GRI 405: 
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employees132
 
GRI 408: 
Child Labor 2016408-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents
of child labor- Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
observes fair labor practice.
GRI 409: 
Forced or Compulsory 
Labor 2016409-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory 
labor- Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
observes fair labor practice.
GRI 406: 
Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and 
corrective actions taken  - Cebu Landmasters, Inc. (CLI) 
observes fair labor practice 
and does not tolerate any 
form of discrimiantion.
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and its 
boundary136 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
60
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
components 136 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
60
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach 136 
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
60
GRI Content Index
 316 317
integrated report 2021GRI 410: 
Security Practices 2016410-1 Security personnel 
trained in human rights 
policies or procedures131, 136
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 2016412-2 Employee training 
on human rights policies 
or procedures131, 136
GRI 413: 
Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations 
with local community 
engagement, impact 
assessments, and 
development programs141-143
GRI 416: 
Customer Health 
and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
the health and safety 
impacts of products and 
services 138-140
GRI 418:
Customer Privacy418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer
privacy and losses of 
customer data140
SEC Form 17A 2021 
EESG Report page 
68
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016  419-1 Non-compliance 
with laws and 
regulations in the social 
and economic area- Cebu Landmasters, Inc. 
(CLI) abides with laws and 
regulations concerning Socio-
economic compliance of 2016.GRI Standard Disclosure Number 
and TitlePageDirect Answer or 
Statement of Omission
GRI Content Index
GRI Content Index
 318 319
integrated report 2021320 321
integrated report 2021
 Stakeholder Inquiries / CreditsSTAKEHOLDER 
INQUIRIES
For inquiries or concerns from analysts, 
institutional investors, the financial community, 
customers, and general public, please contact:
GENERAL OR MEDIA INQUIRIES
rosemel@cebulandmasters.com
INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS
clarissa@cebulandmasters.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
larri_nil@cebulandmasters.com
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY / 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
vralejandria@cebulandmasters.com
STOCKHOLDER
For inquiries regarding dividend payments, change 
of address and account status, lost or damaged 
stock certificates, please contact:
ADDRESS
BDO Trust and Investments
c/o Lorraine Carpio
15F South Tower BDO Corporate Center
Makati Ave, Makati City
TELEPHONE
+63(2) 878-4965
EMAIL
bdo-stock-transfer@bdo.com.phCREDITS
Cover Concept
DRINK SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS
CEBU LANDMASTERS, INC.
Editorial 
CEBU LANDMASTERS, INC. SUSTAINABILITY TECHNICAL WORKING GROUP
DRINK SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS
www.drinkph.com
Portraitures
MARK PHILIP DALES
JON UNSON
Operational Photos
CEBU LANDMASTERS, INC.
Printer
ClintKAMMS CORPORATION
